Environmental 
Report
2024

12
 1 
What’s inside
About this report
Google’s 2024 Environmental Report provides an overview of our 
environmental sustainability strategy, our targets, and our annual 
progress toward them. Throughout this report, we use the term 
“sustainability” to refer to environmental sustainability. This report 
features data, performance highlights, and progress against our 
targets from our 2023 fiscal year (January 1 to December 31, 2023), 
and mentions some notable achievements from 2024 to date.
Additional resources
• Explore the 2024 Environmental Report with AI
• Sustainability.google
• Sustainability reports
• Sustainability blog
• Google’s mission, values, and commitments
• Alphabet SASB and TCFD Index
• About Google
Table of contents
Introduction  2
Executive letter  3
Our sustainability strategy   5
2023 highlights  6
Targets and progress summary  7
Searching for sustainability  8
AI for sustainability 9
Our products 14
Mitigation  16
Adaptation and resilience  2 3
Our operations 27
Net-zero carbon  2 9
Water stewardship  42
Circular economy  49
Nature and biodiversity  56
Appendix 60
About Google  61
Sustainability governance  61
Risk management  61
Stakeholder engagement  62  
and partnership  
Multi-sector products  67
Ecosystems for collaboration  68
Environmental data  70
Certifications  80
Recognitions  80
Endnotes  81

 2 
Introduction
Executive letter
Our sustainability strategy
2023 highlights
Targets and progress summary
Searching for sustainability 

 3 
A letter from our Chief Sustainability Officer and our  
Senior Vice President of Learning and Sustainability
Since our earliest days, we’ve been 
on an ambitious journey to help 
build a more sustainable future.
An important part of that is sharing what we’ve 
learned along the way and being transparent 
about our progress and our challenges. 
This is especially true given the urgency of 
the moment—a time when technological 
advancement is converging with the need  
for energy transition.
Our annual Environmental Report offers 
a deep dive into our efforts to harness 
technology—particularly AI—to drive positive 
environmental change and operate our 
business sustainably. This year, we’re also 
offering a new experimental AI chatbot, 
powered by NotebookLM, to help summarize 
key findings, clarify complex topics, and 
explore the details about our environmental 
work.
Our approach to enabling AI for 
sustainability
We know that scaling AI and using it to 
accelerate climate action is just as crucial 
as addressing the environmental impact 
associated with it. 
To help minimize our environmental 
footprint, we’ve built world-leading efficient 
infrastructure for the AI era, including Trillium,  
our sixth-generation Tensor Processing Unit 
(TPU), which is over 67% more energy-efficient 
than TPU v5e.
 1 We’ve also identified tested 
practices that our research shows can, when 
used together, reduce the energy required 
to train an AI model by up to 100 times and 
reduce associated emissions by up to 1,000 
times.
 2  All these practices are used at Google 
today.
We strive to build the world’s most energy-
efficient computing infrastructure, supported 
by responsible water use practices and a 
commitment to minimizing waste. A Google-
owned and -operated data center is, on 
average, approximately 1.8 times as energy 
efficient as a typical enterprise data center.
 3 
In 2023, the average annual power usage 
effectiveness for our data centers was 1.10 
compared with the industry average of 1.58,
 4 
meaning that our data centers used about 5.8 
times less overhead energy for every unit of IT 
equipment energy. 
Last year we introduced a water risk 
framework to further identify climate-
conscious cooling solutions that consider 
carbon-free energy (CFE) availability, 
watershed health and future water needs. 
We see our growing infrastructure as an 
opportunity to drive the innovations and 
investments needed to power a low-carbon 
economy.
AI holds immense promise to drive climate 
action. In fact, AI has the potential to help 
mitigate 5–10% of global greenhouse gas 
(GHG) emissions by 2030.
 5 We’re advancing 
climate action through AI in three key areas:
• Organizing information: Fuel-efficient 
routing uses AI to analyze traffic, terrain, 
and a vehicle’s engine to suggest the most 
efficient route. It's estimated to have helped 
enable more than 2.9 million metric tons of 
GHG emissions reductions since the feature 
launched in late 2021 to the end of 2023—
that’s equivalent to taking approximately 
650,000 fuel-based cars off the road for a 
year.
 6
• Improving prediction: We built a 
breakthrough global hydrological AI model 
and combined it with publicly available data 
sources to predict floods up to seven days 
in advance in over 80 countries. This covers 
territories where more than 460 million 
people live,
 7 helping these communities 
prepare for and respond to riverine floods.
• Better optimization: Green Light is an AI-
based tool that helps city traffic engineers 
optimize the timing of traffic lights to reduce 
stop-and-go traffic and fuel consumption. 
This technology has the potential for up 
to 30% reduction in stops and up to 10% 
reduction in emissions at intersections.
 8
Through our products, we aim to help 
individuals, cities, and other partners 
collectively reduce 1 gigaton of carbon 
equivalent emissions annually by 2030, and 
we’ll continue to develop technologies that 
help communities adapt to the effects of 
climate change. 
How we're driving sustainability across 
our operations
In 2017, Google became the first major 
company to match 100% of our annual 
electricity consumption on a global basis  
with renewable energy, which we’ve  
achieved every year since.
 9
Building on our first two decades of progress, 
in 2020 we launched our third decade of 
climate action—our most ambitious yet. 


 4 
We have a bold goal to reach net-zero 
emissions across all of our operations and 
value chain by 2030, supported by a goal 
to run on 24/7 CFE on every grid where 
we operate. In addition, we’re working to 
advance water stewardship, build a circular 
economy, and restore and enhance nature and 
biodiversity. This year’s report shows how we 
continue to make progress across all of these 
areas:
• Ten of our grid regions 10 achieved at least 
90% CFE, and even with our total electricity 
load increasing across our data centers, we 
maintained a global average of 64% CFE. We 
also celebrated a first-of-a-kind enhanced 
g
eothermal project now delivering CFE to 
the grid. 
• We implemented a Google Renewable
Energy Addendum that asks our largest
hardware manufacturing suppliers, based
on spend, to commit to achieving a 100%
renewable energy match by 2029.  12
• Our water stewardship projects replenished
an estimated 1 billion gallons of water, 13 
which represents 18% of our 2023
freshwater consumption and tripled our
replenishment progress of 6% in 2022.
• For new Google products launched and
manufactured in 2023, our packaging was at
least 99% p
lastic-free. 14 Plus, packaging for
our Pixel 8 and Pixel 8 Pro uses 100%plastic-
free materials.  15
Our ongoing work to build a 
sustainable future
In spite of the progress we're making, we 
face significant challenges that we’re actively 
working through. In 2023, our total GHG 
emissions increased 13% year-over-year, 
primarily driven by increased data center 
energy consumption and supply chain 
emissions.
While we advanced clean energy on many 
of the grids where we operate, there are 
still some hard-to-decarbonize regions like 
Asia Pacific where CFE isn’t readily available. 
In addition, we often see longer lead times 
between initial investments and construction 
of clean energy projects and the resulting 
GHG reductions from them.
To continue to drive progress toward a  
low-carbon economy, we most recently 
introduced a clean transition rate that brings 
customers
 and utilities together to drive new 
clean energy
 projects in the United  States, and 
we unveiled an investment to enable 1 
g
igaw
att of new solar capacity in Taiwan.
A sustainable future requires systems-level 
change, strong government policies, and 
new te
chnologies. We’re committed to 
collaboration and playing our part, every step 
of the way.
Kate E. Brandt
Kate E. Brandt 
Chief Sustainability Officer, Google
Benedict Gomes
Benedict Gomes 
SVP, Learning & Sustainability, Google
Our campus in Mountain View, California.
• We signed contracts to purchase 
approximately 4 gigawatts of clean energy 
generation capacity 11 in locations such as 
Texas, Belgium, and Australia—more than in 
any prior year.  

 5 
Our sustainability strategy
We believe Google has a unique opportunity that extends beyond managing the environmental impact of our own operations and value chain. Our products, which are used by billions of people every 
day, can enable decisions that drive positive action for the environment. The figure below illustrates these two pillars of our sustainability strategy, supported by our dedication to accessible information 
and technological innovation. To learn more about our sustainability governance, stakeholder engagement, environmental data, and more, see the Appendix.
Our products 
We’re empowering people with information to mitigate and adapt  
to climate change—focusing on sectors like energy and transportation  
where Google’s unique capabilities can have a meaningful impact.
Mitigation
Energy
Transportation
Adaptation and resilience
Extreme event forecasting  
and early warning systems
Learn more in the Our products section.
Our operations
We’re working to drive sustainability across our operations in four key ways: 
accelerating the transition to a net-zero carbon future, advancing water stewardship, 
building a circular economy, and restoring nature and biodiversity.
Net-zero carbon
 Water stewardship
Circular economy
 Nature and biodiversity
Learn more in the Our operations section.
Information and innovation 
We’re helping to lead the transition to a more sustainable future by making information accessible and by driving innovation forward.

 6 
2023 highlights
For additional highlights, see the approach page of each report section. And for a more complete overview of our performance over time, see the Appendix for our Environmental data tables.
Our products
Reached 1 billion users 
For the past two years, Google 
has provided information to over 1 
billion users to help them make more 
sustainable choices annually  
through our products.
 16 
Learn more on page 15
Displayed flood forecasts 
for over 80 countries 
covering 460 million people
Flood Hub displayed forecasts for over  
80 countries on five continents—
covering more than 460 million  
people globally.
 17  
Learn more on page 25
Enabled 2.9 million metric 
tons of GHG emissions 
reductions from fuel-
efficient routing
Fuel-efficient routing is estimated 
to have helped enable more than 2.9 
million metric tons of GHG emissions 
reductions since the feature launched 
in late 2021—equivalent to taking 
approximately 650,000 fuel-based 
cars off the road for a year.
 18  
Learn more on page 20
Net-zero carbon
Achieved at least 90%  
carbon-free energy in 
10 grid regions
Ten of our grid regions 19 achieved 
at least 90% CFE and we 
maintained a global average of 
64% CFE across our data centers 
and offices—even as our total 
electricity consumption increased. 
Learn more on page 35
Maintained 100% 
renewable energy  
match for 7 years
We achieved seven consecutive 
years of 100% renewable  
energy matching on a global  
and annual basis.
 20  
Learn more on page 33
Contracted 4 GW  
of clean energy
We signed contracts to purchase 
approximately 4 GW of clean 
energy generation capacity
 21 —
more than in any prior year.  
Learn more on page 35
Water stewardship
Doubled our water  
replenishment portfolio
We nearly doubled our water 
replenishment portfolio, increasing 
from 38 water stewardship projects 
in 2022 to 74 projects in 2023.  
Learn more on page 46
Circular economy
Achieved 100% plastic-
free packaging for Pixel 
8 and 8 Pro
Packaging for Pixel 8 and Pixel 
8 Pro uses 100% plastic-free 
materials.
 22   
Learn more on page 55
Nature and biodiversity
Created or restored  
67 acres of habitat 
As of the end of 2023, we created or 
restored approximately 67 acres of 
habitat and planted roughly 4,500 
native trees on Google’s campuses 
and the surrounding urban landscape, 
primarily in the San Francisco Bay Area. 
Learn more on page 58

 7 
Targets and progress summary
This table summarizes our targets and progress as of December 31, 2023. For additional details and year-over-year trends, see the target boxes in relevant report sections and the Targets data table in the Appendix.
Targets 2023 progress
Net-zero carbon
We aim to achieve net-zero emissions across all of  
our operations and value chain by 2030
Run on 24/7 carbon-free energy on  
every grid where we operate by 2030
We maintained a global average of approximately 64% carbon-free energy across our data 
centers and offices from 2022 to 2023—despite growth in electricity demand over this period.
Learn more on page 35
Reduce 50% of our combined Scope 1, 2  
(market-based), and 3 absolute emissions  
(compared to our 2019 base year) by 2030
 23 
Our total GHG emissions were 14.3 million tCO2e, representing a 13% year-over-year increase 
and a 48% increase compared to our 2019 target base year—primarily due to increases in data 
center energy consumption and supply chain emissions.  
Learn more on page 31
Water stewardship
We aim to replenish more water than we consume and help improve  
water quality and ecosystem health in the communities where we operate
Replenish 120% of the freshwater volume 
we consume, on average, across our offices  
and data centers by 2030
Our water stewardship projects replenished approximately 18% of our freshwater consumption 
from our data centers and offices—tripling our replenishment progress of 6% in 2022. 
Learn more on page 46
Circular economy
We aim to maximize the reuse of finite resources across  
our operations, products, and supply chains
Achieve Zero Waste to Landfill 24 for  
our global data center operations
Following our updated waste accounting methodology, 29% (8 out of 28) of our Google-owned 
and -operated data center campuses met our Zero Waste to Landfill goal.
 25  
Learn more on page 53
Divert all food waste from  
landfill by 2025
We diverted 82% of food waste from landfill—a slight decrease from 85% in 2022—due, 
in part, to limited composting infrastructure in certain regions. 
Learn more on page 52
Use recycled or renewable material in at least  
50% of plastic used across our consumer  
hardware product portfolio by 2025
34% of the plastic Google used in products manufactured in 2023 was recycled content.  26  
This decrease from 41% in 2022  27  was due to changes in our product mix—some product 
types use less plastic than others, which can reduce opportunities to use recycled content. 
Learn more on page 54
Make product packaging 100%  
plastic-free by 2025
For new Google products launched and manufactured in 2023, our packaging was at least 
99% plastic-free,
 28  an increase from at least 96% plastic-free packaging in 2022, primarily 
due to packaging innovations. 29   
Learn more on page 55

 8 
Searching for sustainability
Google Search provides a unique lens into the world’s perspectives on sustainability and the issues people care about most. Google Trends 30 show that the world is searching for sustainability 
information and insights like never before. For example in 2023, search interest in “jobs related to sustainability” reached an all-time high. 31 In fact, we estimate that 36% of Google Search 
users in the United States have searched for a sustainability-related topic over the course of a year. 32 Below are trends that demonstrate the impact climate change is having around the 
world, and what people are searching for to better understand it.
Extreme weather events
Search interest in “coastal flooding” in the United States reached an  
all-time high in January 2024,  33 and the top natural disasters searched  
for worldwide in 2023 include earthquakes, floods, tsunamis, storms,  
and tropical cyclones.
 34
Search interest in coastal flooding since 2004, 
in the United States 
2004 2010 2016 2022
20
40
60
80
100
0
Coastal flooding
Top searched natural disasters in 2023, worldwide
*includes hurricane searches
Earthquake Flood Tropical cyclone* TsunamiStorm
Clean energy
“Energy development” and “solar power” were among the top five 
trending topics searched with “climate change mitigation” in 2023.  35 
“Solar” and “wind power” are the two most searched renewable energy 
types in the world,
 36 and global searches for “rooftop solar power” 
specifically reached an all-time high in 2024.  37 
Search interest in solar power versus wind power in 
2023, worldwide
Solar powerWind power
2004 2010 2016 2022
20
0
40
60
80
100Search interest in rooftop solar power 
since 2004, worldwide
Rooftop solar
Recycling
In the United States, “electronic waste recycling” was searched more than 
ever in 2023,
 38 and top materials searched with “recycling” worldwide in 
2023 included plastic, paper, metal, glass, and cardboard.  39 
2004 2010 2016 2022
40
20
0
60
80
100
Search interest in electronic waste recycling since 
2004, in the United States
Electronic waste recycling
42%
23%
10%
13%
12%
Cardboard
Glass
Metal
Paper
Plastic
Top materials  
searched with recycling 
in 2023, worldwide

 9 
AI for sustainability
Our approach
Boldly accelerating climate action with AI
Responsibly managing the resource consumption of AI
Working together

 10 
Our approach to enabling AI for sustainability
AI can have a transformative 
effect on climate progress. We’re 
harnessing our years of experience 
as an AI-first company to enable 
others—people, businesses, 
communities, and governments—
to use AI for both mitigation and 
adaptation. 
As highlighted in our AI Opportunity Agenda ,  
we’re currently at an inflection point where 
choices made today will ensure that AI is  
used to benefit as many people as possible. 
With a bold and responsible approach, we’re 
taking steps to make this technology helpful 
for everyone. 
While scaling these AI applications and 
finding new ways to use AI to accelerate 
climate action is crucial, we’re also working to 
responsibly manage the environmental impact 
associated with it.
Our strategy on enabling AI for sustainability  
is underpinned by the following approach  
(see Figure 1):
The world has in its hands the potential to apply artificial intelligence (AI) and 
machine learning (ML) to drive forward the net-zero transition and give us a chance 
to stay within 1.5℃. AI and ML can contribute massively to the pace of processes, 
can drive higher productivity, and can help design and run better systems. Together, 
they can unlock new growth that is sustainable, resilient, and equitable—whilst 
managing the immense and urgent risks of climate change, biodiversity loss, and 
pollution.
Nicholas Stern 
Chair, Grantham Research Institute on Climate Change 
and the Environment, London School of Economics
To read the full article from Nicholas Stern, see  
Green and Intelligent: The Global Economy in the 21st Century .
FIGURE 1 Harnessing AI-powered climate solutions with environmental responsibility
Boldly accelerating  
climate action with AI
By providing solutions for information, prediction,  
and optimization across sectors, AI can play a  
transformative role in climate progress.
Information
 Prediction
Optimization
Responsibly managing the  
resource consumption of AI
We’re committed to developing AI responsibly by working to  
address its environmental footprint through model optimization,  
efficient infrastructure, and emissions reductions.
Model optimization
 Efficient Infrastructure
Emissions reductions
Working together to enable AI for climate progress
Working together across industry, governments, experts, international organizations,  
and individuals is essential to unlock the potential of AI for tackling climate change. 

 11 
Boldly accelerating climate action with AI
AI has a critical enabling role to 
play in accelerating mitigation, 
supporting adaptation, and building 
foundational capabilities for the 
transition to a low-carbon future. 
According to an estimate from Boston 
Consulting Group, AI has the potential to help 
mitigate 5–10% of global GHG emissions by 
2030
 40—the equivalent of roughly the total 
annual emissions of the European Union.  41 
And the positive impact of AI could grow as it 
contributes to breakthroughs that open new 
pathways for climate action.
In this context, the three distinct capabilities 
that AI enables are information, prediction,  
and optimization.
Information
Information generated by AI through the  
rapid processing and analyzing of vast 
amounts of data can empower individuals  
and organizations in their own  
sustainability efforts.
• Cool roofs: We’re exploring how AI 
algorithms and aerial imagery can help 
implement reflective roofs—called “cool 
roofs”—which save energy and reduce 
indoor and outdoor temperatures. As of  
the end of 2023, this pilot was available in  
15 cities (see Figure 2 and page 2 6).
• Near-real time data and monitoring: 
By combining data from MethaneSAT, 
Environmental Defense Fund’s new 
methane-tracking satellite, with Google’s 
AI and infrastructure mapping capabilities, 
we’ll create a more comprehensive view 
of methane emissions from oil and gas—
enabling a better understanding of how to 
mitigate them (see page 22).
Prediction
Breakthroughs in forecasting by using AI 
enable improvements in preparedness  
efforts and facilitate interventions in  
climate mitigation.
• Extreme heat: When people search for 
information on extreme heat, they’ll see 
details on when a heat wave is predicted 
to start and end, tips on staying cool, and 
related health concerns to be aware of—all 
prominently displayed in Search results. 
Since launching, we’ve provided information 
about extreme heat on Search in more than 
100 countries (see page 25).
• Contrails: We’re working with the airline 
industry to develop contrail forecast maps 
using AI-based predictions, allowing pilots 
and airlines to optimize routes that avoid 
creating climate-warming contrails. In one 
trial consisting of 70 test flights, use of the 
predictive technology reduced contrails by 
54%
 42  (see page 21).
Optimization
One of the challenges of addressing 
climate change is the fragmented way that 
information is gathered and used. AI offers a 
transformative solution by not only gathering 
and interpreting vast amounts of data, 
but also optimizing complex systems with 
unprecedented efficiency.
• Home energy use: For over a decade, 
our Nest Learning Thermostats have used 
machine learning to help people save energy 
and money at home. In 2023, we estimate 
that Nest thermostats helped customers 
save more than 20 billion kWh of energy
 43 
(see page 19).
• Grid decarbonization: Tapestry—a part of 
X, Alphabet’s moonshot factory—is creating 
a single virtualized view of the electricity 
system through AI-powered tools that can 
predict and simulate what might happen on 
the grid from milliseconds to decades into 
the future (see page 19).
These solutions demonstrate that the 
applications of AI to meaningfully bolster 
mitigation, adaptation, and climate resilience 
aren’t just speculative, but rather are having 
real impact today.
FIGURE 2 Cool Roofs tool
Our Cool Roofs tool uses AI and aerial imagery to generate high 
resolution roof solar reflectivity measurements
The deployment of AI in crafting and executing energy strategies presents an 
unparalleled opportunity to transform the narrative in the Global South to sustainable 
growth and development while meeting their future energy needs.
Damilola Ogunbiyi
CEO and Special Representative of the UN Secretary-General  
for Sustainable Energy for All, and Co-Chair of UN-Energy
To read the full article from Damilola Ogunbiyi, see  
AI-Powered Pathways: Advancing SDG7 for a Sustainable Energy Future .

 12 
Responsibly managing the resource consumption of AI
While AI offers new solutions for 
climate action, it also has its own 
environmental impact. We have 
an understanding of its current 
demands, but its future trajectory 
remains uncertain. Here’s what we 
know and what we’re still learning.
Contextualizing Google’s impact
Based on the most recent estimates as 
of 2022, global data center electricity 
consumption is 240–340 TWh, or around 
1–1.3% of global electricity demand.
 44  
Using these estimates as a proxy for 2023, 
Google’s data center consumption of 
more than 24 TWh in 2023 translates to 
approximately 7–10% of global data center 
electricity consumption and approximately 
0.1% of global electricity demand.
 45 
While data centers consume electricity and 
contribute to emissions, cloud and hyperscale 
data centers collectively represent only an 
estimated 0.1–0.2% of global GHG emissions, 
based on the most recent global estimates 
as of 2022.
 46 Google’s emissions contribute 
a smaller fraction—in 2023, our total GHG 
emissions were approximately 14.3 million 
tCO
2e.
AI’s resource demands
AI has been deeply integrated into our 
products for years, and we’ve invested heavily 
in improving the efficiency of our AI models 
and infrastructure. While these efforts have 
helped mitigate some of AI’s environmental 
footprint, the rapid advancement of AI has 
brought necessary increased attention to its 
energy consumption and resource demands. 
In 2023, our total data center electricity 
consumption grew 17%, despite maintaining 
a 100% global renewable energy match. As 
Google’s infrastructure continues to power 
the digital transition, providing numerous 
economic benefits across the globe, we 
expect this trend to continue in the future. 
But we see our growing infrastructure as 
an opportunity to drive the innovations and 
investments needed to power a low-carbon 
economy.
Overall, our total GHG emissions increased by 
13%—highlighting the challenge of reducing 
emissions while compute intensity increases 
and we grow our technical infrastructure 
investment to support this AI transition. For 
more details, see the Net-zero carbon section.
Predicting the future environmental impact of 
AI is complex and evolving, and our historical 
trends likely don’t fully capture AI’s future 
trajectory. As we deeply integrate AI across 
our product portfolio, the distinction between 
AI and other workloads will not be meaningful. 
So, we’re focusing on data center-wide 
metrics since they include the overall resource 
consumption (and hence, the environmental 
impact) of AI.
Uncertainty ahead
AI is at an inflection point and many factors 
will influence its ultimate impact—including the 
extent of AI adoption, our ability to mitigate 
its footprint, and the pace of continued 
innovation and efficiency. Additionally, 
system-level changes are needed to address 
challenges such as grid decarbonization, 
evolving regulations, hard-to-decarbonize 
industries, and the availability of carbon-free 
energy. While we remain optimistic about AI’s 
potential to drive positive change, we’re also 
clear-eyed about its potential environmental 
impact and the collaborative effort required to 
navigate this evolving landscape. 
We’re committed to responsibly managing the 
environmental impact of AI by deploying three 
major strategies: model optimization, efficient 
infrastructure, and emissions reductions.
According to the IEA, estimated global data center 
electricity consumption represents around 
1–1.3%  of global electricity demand. 47 
Through increased collaboration, innovation, and implementation, together with the 
development of robust governance and ethical frameworks that include minimizing 
the environmental impact of AI itself, we must ensure that AI remains unbiased and 
benefits all. This is critical, because what is undeniable is AI’s potential to address 
the environmental challenges of our time and help steer our planet towards a more 
sustainable and prosperous future.
Golestan (Sally) Radwan
Chief Digital Officer, United Nations Environment Programme
To read the full blog from Golestan (Sally) Radwan, see  
Harnessing AI to Accelerate the Sustainable Development Goals .
Google’s energy and efficiency highlights
global renewable  
energy match 48
100%
carbon-free 
 energy
64%
1.8x
1.10
fleet-wide average  
annual PUE 49 
as energy efficient as a typical 
enterprise data center 50

 13 
Model optimization
Google has long been at the forefront of  
AI and machine learning, evolving years of  
deep learning research into techniques that 
make training faster and more efficient—
enabling models that are higher quality,  
faster, and less compute-intensive to serve.
Development and training: We’ve identified 
tested practices that our research shows 
can, when used together, reduce the energy 
required to train an AI model by up to 100 
times and reduce associated emissions by 
up to 1,000 times,
 51 which are all used at 
Google today. We’ve sped up AI model training 
through techniques like quantization, boosting 
large-language model training efficiency by 
39% on Cloud TPU v5e.
 52  And our Go Green 
Software guide helps developers reduce their 
digital footprints.
Deployment and usage: Google’s Gemini 
1.5 Pro delivers dramatic improvements and 
achieves comparable quality to Gemini 1.0 
Ultra while using less compute.
 53
Efficient infrastructure
We strive to build the world’s most energy-
efficient computing infrastructure, supported 
by responsible water use practices and a 
commitment to minimizing waste.
Chip hardware efficiency: We’re continually 
improving the power efficiency of AI 
hardware. For example, our TPU v4  
was 2.7 times more energy efficient than  
our TPU v3,
 54 and we’ll soon offer  
Nvidia’s next-generation Blackwell GPU to 
Cloud customers, which Nvidia estimates 
will train large models using 75% less power 
than older GPUs to complete the same task.
 55 
Additionally, our new Google Axion Processors  
are up to 60% more energy efficient than 
comparable current-generation x86-based 
instances.
 56 These advancements, including 
AI-powered optimizations like AlphaZero, 
show how we’re constantly improving 
hardware efficiency.
Data center energy efficiency: Our data 
centers remain some of the most efficient 
in the world, and we continue working to 
optimize their use of electricity, water, and 
materials. In 2023, the average annual power 
usage effectiveness
 57 (PUE) for our global 
fleet of data centers was 1.10 (see Figure 
3), compared with the industry average of 
1.58
 58—meaning that Google data centers 
used about 5.8 times less overhead energy for 
every unit of IT equipment energy. For more 
details, see the Net-zero carbon section.
Responsible water use: The expansion of 
AI products and services is leading to an 
increase in data center workloads and the 
associated water footprint required to cool 
them efficiently. In 2023, our data centers 
consumed 6.1 billion gallons of water—17% 
more water than the previous year, mirroring 
similar growth in electricity use. To put this into 
perspective, in 2023 our data centers used 
the same amount of water needed to irrigate 
roughly 41 golf courses annually, on average, 
in the southwestern United States.
 59 We’re 
committed to responsible water use—using 
our water risk framework to identify climate-
conscious cooling solutions that consider 
carbon-free energy availability, watershed 
health, and future water needs. For more 
details, see the Water stewardship section.
Waste: In 2023, we diverted 78% of 
operational waste from disposal across our 
global fleet of Google-owned and -operated 
data centers, and 29% (8 out of 28) of our  
data centers met our Zero Waste to Landfill 
goal.
 60 We also maintain servers for as long  
as possible by refurbishing, reusing, or 
reselling components, and we work to ensure 
device longevity. For more details, see the 
Circular economy section.
Energy efficiency at Google data centers
0
1.08
1.10
1.10
1.12
1.14
1.16
1.18
1.20
Trailing 12-month PUE
2010 20162012 20182014 2020 2022
FIGURE 3
Trailing 12-month PUELegend
Emissions reductions
We aim to reach net-zero emissions across 
all of our operations and value chain by 
2030. In 2023, we achieved 64% carbon-free 
energy on average across all of our data 
centers, and we purchased over 25 TWh of 
renewable electricity—including from PPAs, 
on-site renewable energy generation, and grid 
renewable energy. 
We deployed innovations like advanced 
geothermal, carbon-intelligent computing, and 
demand response capabilities , and partnered 
with others to leverage our demand, like our 
demand aggregation and procurement model  
for advanced clean electricity technologies 
with Microsoft and Nucor and our participation 
in Frontier.
We work with our supply chain, partnering to 
improve environmental data collection and 
reporting and to develop decarbonization 
roadmaps—focusing on reducing emissions in 
high-impact areas.
We’re also working to reduce the embodied 
carbon impact of growing machine learning 
demand at our data centers by optimizing 
machine placement, promoting the reuse 
and upcycling of technical infrastructure 
hardware, and collaborating with organizations 
like Building Transparency and the iMasons 
Climate Accord. 
These efforts help to reduce the emissions 
associated with our products, including AI, and 
we remain dedicated to their prioritization as 
we continue to innovate. For more detail, see 
the Net-zero carbon section.
Working together
Our AI for climate policy 
agenda
Harnessing the potential of AI for climate 
action requires collective action. Policymakers, 
in particular, can help by:
Encouraging data sharing, ensuring 
affordable technology access, and building 
awareness: Accessible and standardized data 
(exemplified by tools like Data Commons and 
MethaneSAT), robust AI compute availability, 
and widespread AI expertise (fostered  
through programs like the Government AI 
Campus, with funding from Google.org) 
are crucial for developing effective climate-
related AI solutions.
Defining market-specific priorities, 
delivering on public sector use cases, 
and encouraging private sector action: 
Policymakers can reduce regulatory hurdles, 
invest in enabling infrastructure, encourage 
innovation, and align incentives. In turn, the 
private sector can focus on high-impact areas, 
pilot solutions, and partner to scale them—
exemplified by Google Research’s partnership 
with Breakthrough Energy and American 
Airlines to develop technology that predicts 
contrail formation zones and informs flight 
paths accordingly.
Promoting environmentally responsible 
AI deployment: Policymakers can promote 
transparency into the impact of AI, encourage 
voluntary commitments from AI providers to 
mitigate this impact, and work to better enable 
AI providers to source carbon-free energy for 
their operations and supply chain.

 14 
Our products
Our approach
Mitigation
Adaptation and resilience

 15 
Our approach to product sustainability
We’re developing tools and technologies that help people mitigate and adapt to climate change through our products
A sustainable future will be built 
upon countless decisions made 
by governments, organizations, 
businesses, and individuals, which 
will need to be grounded in helpful 
and authoritative information. 
As an information company, we bring 
accurate, authoritative information to people 
to help them make key decisions in their lives, 
including information about sustainability. We 
don’t tell people what choice to make, but we 
know that when they are given high quality 
information, they often make more  
sustainable choices.
For the past two years, Google has provided 
information to over 1 billion users to help 
them make more sustainable choices annually 
through our products.
 61 We achieved this by 
offering sustainability features like  
fuel-efficient routing in Google Maps and 
more transportation options in Search, such  
as train routes.
We’re tackling climate change by focusing 
on some of the most critical challenges: 
reducing emissions in sectors like energy and 
transportation, and better predicting extreme 
weather to lessen its effects. By applying 
AI and other cutting edge technologies to 
these problems, we can help individuals and 
organizations achieve their goals and  
maximize impact.
In addition to our own products, our platforms 
like Google Cloud enable partners to build  
solutions that help others mitigate and adapt 
to climate change. For more details on Google 
Cloud, see the Multi-sector products section 
in the Appendix.
We’ve developed an AI-based technology to map wildfires in near real-time in Google Search and Maps.

 16 
Mitigation
We aim to help people make more sustainable choices to mitigate climate change
Our approach
 1 gigaton aspiration
Energy
 Home heating and cooling
 Solar
 Electricity grid decarbonization
 Clean energy partners
Transportation
 Driving
 Transit and urban mobility
 Flying
Additional sectors

 17 
Our approach to climate mitigation
In 2023, global searches for 
“climate change mitigation ” 
reached an all-time high.  62
With solutions across Google products, we 
aim to help individuals make informed choices 
about their environmental impact. Providing 
people with information on sustainable 
alternatives often provides co-benefits— 
like saving them time or money, or improving 
their health. We also strive to enable 
businesses to track emissions, optimize 
operations, and drive climate action 
throughout their value chains. 
Across sectors that have been identified 
by experts as having the largest mitigation 
potential,
 63 we’ve chosen to focus on energy 
and transportation —which collectively 
account for roughly half of global emissions  64 
(see Figure 4 and Figure 5). With expertise in 
areas like geospatial mapping (Google Maps, 
Google Earth), smart home technology (Nest 
thermostats), and grid decarbonization (24/7 
CFE), Google is uniquely positioned to have 
the most impact in these sectors through our 
products and research. 
We’re also developing tools that support a 
broad range of mitigation solutions across 
multiple sectors. For more details, see the 
Multi-sector solutions section in the Appendix.
FIGURE 4 Our sector-based approach to mitigation
Sectors of primary focus
Energy
Empowering individuals, businesses, 
and grid operators to navigate the 
clean energy transition—optimizing 
renewable energy sources and 
decarbonizing the grid
Transportation
Supporting more sustainable travel 
choices across various modes of 
transportation, including driving, 
transit, and flying
• Green Light: Recommendations 
from Green Light—an AI tool for 
optimizing traffic signals—were 
implemented in 12 cities across 
four continents. Early numbers 
from Green Light indicate the 
potential to reduce stops by up 
to 30% and reduce emissions at 
intersections by up to 10%.
 65
• Transportation options in 
Search: We now feature more 
transportation options in Search, 
showcasing long-distance train 
routes in 38 countries and long-
distance bus routes in 15 countries.
• Solar API: Our Solar API helps 
accelerate solar development, and 
now covers more than 472 million 
buildings across 40 countries, 
including newly expanded 
coverage to over 95% of all 
buildings in the United States.
 66 
2023 highlights
• Say-do gap: There’s a significant 
opportunity to help consumers 
bridge the gap between their 
sustainability values and their daily 
choices—or the “say-do gap.” 
• Information quality: Deliberately 
false or misleading information 
about climate change can make it 
difficult for people to distinguish 
credible sources, undermine public 
trust in science, hinder informed 
decision making, and impede 
effective climate action. 
• Need for localized solutions: 
The complex, localized nature 
of climate impacts, combined 
with a fragmented global 
market, presents a challenge for 
developing product sustainability 
features with widespread 
applicability and scalability. 
Global challenges

 18 
FIGURE 5 Estimated global emissions (by sector)
Sectors of focus for Google
Our 1 GT 
aspiration
Source for global emissions estimates: IPCC Climate Change 2023 Synthesis Report
      Sector GT Sector GT
Energy 20 Forest, land use,  
and agriculture 13
Transportation 8.7 Industrial 14
 Buildings 3.3 A gigaton of 
emissions 1
A view of Earth shows the vast network of electric grids worldwide.
SPOTLIGHT
Our 1 gigaton aspiration
We’ve set an aspiration to help individuals, cities, and other partners collectively reduce 1 gigaton of their 
carbon equivalent emissions annually by 2030. 
To put the scale of this ambition 
into perspective, 1 GT of emissions 
reductions is comparable to the entire 
annual emissions of Japan.
 67 
So far, we’ve estimated the enabled 
GHG emission reductions from  
two products:
• Fuel-efficient routing: In 2023 alone, 
we estimate that fuel-efficient routing 
enabled more than 1.7 million metric 
tons of GHG emissions reductions—
equivalent to taking approximately 
380,000 fuel-based cars off the road 
for a year.
 68
• Nest thermostats: In 2023, we estimate that 
Nest thermostats helped customers save 
more than 20 billion kWh of energy,
 69 which 
we estimate enabled approximately 7 million 
metric tons of GHG emissions reductions.
 70
As other products continue to be developed 
and mature—including some of those 
described throughout this chapter—we’re 
working to understand their real-world impact 
in enabling GHG emissions reductions. We 
expect to share additional enabled GHG 
emissions reduction estimates in the future as 
we progress toward our 1 GT aspiration. 
While we’ve made some progress, many 
of the solutions to help others achieve a 
gigaton of carbon emission reductions 
are either still in development or don’t 
yet exist, and estimating enabled 
emissions reductions is inherently 
difficult and imprecise (see the  
Our gigaton aspiration section of our 
2023 Environmental Report to learn 
more about our estimation approach). 
This ambition pushes us to innovate 
and be audacious in our approach 
and to collaborate with others to drive 
systemic solutions. 

 19 
Energy
To support the clean energy 
transition, we’re working to enable 
more informed choices and reduce 
the climate impact of energy use.
Home heating and 
cooling
Energy use in residential buildings contributes 
50% to global building carbon emissions.  71 
But making sense of the options can be 
overwhelming, from navigating financial 
incentives and total costs, to understanding 
efficiency ratings.
Nest thermostats use algorithms powered  
by AI and machine learning to optimize 
residential heating and cooling systems  
and reduce energy consumption .  
They can help save energy in a number of 
ways, including setting up energy-efficient 
schedules or automatically making small 
changes to temperature settings when energy 
use is surging and prices are high. These 
actions lead to a significant collective impact. 
In 2023, we estimate that Nest thermostats 
helped customers save more than 20 billion 
kWh of energy
 72 —which we estimate enabled 
approximately 7 million metric tons of GHG 
emissions reductions.
 73
We’re also making it easier for people looking 
to upgrade their home heating or cooling  
system. Search queries like “boilers,” “heat 
pumps,” or “furnaces” in the United States, 
Germany, and France now show information 
about sustainable options—including their 
capabilities, energy efficiency, and financial 
incentives—all in one place (see Figure 6).
FIGURE 6 Sharing information about home cooling 
and heating options in Search 
Solar
Solar plays a significant role in the clean 
energy transition. 74 To help, we’ve developed 
several products and tools to make solar more 
accessible, bringing solar information and 
technology to homeowners, solar companies, 
and city planners around the world. 
In 2015, we launched Project Sunroof to 
help people determine their homes’ solar 
potential. Demand for solar data continues 
to grow and in 2023, with help from our 
partners, we launched the Solar API  on the 
Google Maps Platform. This enables us to 
provide data on solar potential, high resolution 
rooftop imagery, and financial insights to our 
customers and partners—making obtaining 
solar energy more efficient, transparent,  
and effective. 
We’ve used AI to provide detailed rooftop 
solar potential data for more than 472 million 
buildings across 40 countries. This includes 
newly expanded coverage to over 95% of 
all buildings in the United States.
 75 Solar 
companies, like Monalee, are using our solar 
data to transition more people to renewable 
energy at a fraction of the time and cost of 
traditional processes.
In 2023, we introduced a new generative  
design feature in Google Earth that makes 
it easier for planners to determine the best 
building designs and solar options for urban 
areas. It’s especially helpful when optimizing 
designs for places with ample space, like car 
parks. This will help cities plan for development 
with the right information to meet their 
sustainability goals.
Electricity grid 
decarbonization
One of the biggest barriers to bringing more 
clean energy online is the complexity of 
connecting it to the grid while maintaining 
overall reliability. Since renewable sources like 
wind and solar are intermittent, governments 
and utilities need to use sophisticated models 
to do so safely. This can be a slow process, 
with barriers like aging infrastructure and the 
inability to plan for severe weather events 
often causing delays.
That’s why we started Tapestry, a part of 
X, Alphabet’s moonshot factory. Tapestry 
aims to unlock access to clean, reliable, and 
affordable electricity worldwide by providing 
greater insight into our increasingly dynamic 
and complex electricity system. Tapestry 
is creating a single virtualized view of the 
electricity system through AI-powered tools 
that can predict and simulate what might 
happen on the grid from milliseconds to 
decades into the future.
Tapestry worked with Google DeepMind to 
improve the grid planning process by  
applying and enhancing GraphCast, an 
AI model designed for fast and accurate 
global weather forecasting. Tapestry 
and GraphCast’s collaborative model 
outperformed the state-of-the-art model, the 
European Centre for Medium-Range Weather 
Forecasts’ HRES, by up to 15%.
 76 These highly 
accurate wind forecast insights have already 
aided wind prediction in Chile and can give 
grid operators worldwide higher confidence in 
relying on variable renewable energy to power 
their network. 
Clean energy partners
We have a number of Google Cloud partners 
that are building solutions to decarbonize 
the energy sector, including mCloud, 
ElectricityMaps and Flexidao. Among 
these, LevelTen Energy not only provides 
access to the world’s largest clean energy 
marketplace and the tools needed for efficient 
transactions, but is also the first partner to 
benefit from Google’s partnership with HSBC 
to finance fast-growing climate technology 
firms. 
We’ve worked to integrate their solutions on 
our Google Cloud Marketplace, supporting  
companies like Iron Mountain who share our 
ambition to reach 24/7 CFE and accelerate 
progress toward grid decarbonization. 
Our predictive analytics are offering 
innovative ways to promote clean energy. For 
example, Engie partnered with Atlas AI to use 
its Google Cloud-powered analytics platform 
to successfully identify potential off-grid solar 
customers in Kenya, boosting their sales by 
48% in one region.
Rødby solar farm in Denmark (55 MW for Google)

 20 
Transportation
How to get around is a high-impact 
choice people make every day. 
We’ve designed our products to 
help people make more informed 
travel decisions.
Driving 
70% of direct transport emissions come 
from road vehicles, 77 so we’re helping to 
make driving more sustainable by providing 
information on the most fuel- or energy-
efficient route, available and compatible EV 
chargers, sustainable commuting options,  
and more. 
Fuel-efficient routing
By building AI models on the emissions profile 
of different vehicle types, fuel-efficient routing 
in Google Maps analyzes traffic, terrain, and 
the vehicle’s engine (gas/petrol, diesel, hybrid, 
or electric) to find the most efficient route. 
This may mean fewer stops for gas engines, 
routes favoring highway speeds for diesel 
vehicles, and maximizing downhill stretches 
for electric cars to boost regenerative 
braking—all while providing the same or  
similar ETA.
As of the end of 2023, fuel-efficient routing is 
estimated to have helped enable more than 
2.9 million metric tons of GHG emissions 
reductions since the feature launched in late 
2021—equivalent to taking approximately 
650,000 fuel-based cars off the road for a 
year.
 78 In 2023, we started rolling out fuel-
efficient routing to India and Indonesia, adding 
to our existing coverage in the United States, 
Canada, Egypt, and nearly 40 European 
countries. And, in India and Indonesia, we’re 
including fuel-efficient routes for two-
wheelers to help even more people travel 
more sustainably.
Electric vehicles
Electric vehicles (EVs) are a key solution 
for decarbonizing road transport and an 
increasingly popular option with consumers. 
We’ve improved the experience for searching 
for EVs with new comparison features and tools 
to understand cost and range (see Figure 7).
• EV comparison: In the United States, 
when people search for terms like “best 
electric cars,” they can quickly compare 
the prices, battery range, and power output 
of individual models. They can also find 
federal government incentives for qualifying 
vehicles in the United States and parts  
of Europe.
• Fuel Cost Calculator: Our updated Fuel 
Cost Calculator, currently available in 21 
countries, now includes results for both 
electric and fuel-based cars, helping drivers 
understand the cost of charging compared 
with filling up at the pump.
• Battery Range Explorer: With Battery 
Range Explorer, searching for an EV shows 
how far one can drive on a single charge, 
specific to that model. These battery range 
insights launched in the United States in 
2023 and are planned to roll out in Europe  
in 2024.
We’re also making the charging experience 
easier for EV drivers in Google Maps and 
Waze. This starts with having EV charging 
locations in Google Maps—by the end of 2023, 
Google Maps included more than 400,000 
EV charging locations globally. Additionally, 
in the Waze app, drivers can find compatible 
charging stations along their route. Thanks to 
local map editors from our Waze Community, 
EV data is reviewed and updated in near-real 
time. 
When EV drivers who have cars with Google  
built-in search for “EV charging” on Google 
Maps, they’ll see charging stations nearby with 
charger availability and last use. Google Maps 
users on Android and iOS are routed to the 
most convenient charging location based on 
factors like traffic, charge levels, and charger 
speed, and can see data on real-time charging 
availability, charger compatibility with their 
vehicle, and charger speed. 
Urban traffic
Many cities suffer from congested urban 
road traffic which results in excessive fuel 
consumption and harmful air pollution. That’s 
why we created Green Light, an AI tool that 
measures driving trends at intersections and 
develops recommendations that city traffic 
engineers can use to optimize the timing  
of traffic light changes to reduce stop- 
and-go traffic. 
In 2023, recommendations from Green Light 
were implemented in 12 cities across four 
continents, including Bengaluru, Kolkata, Rio 
de Janeiro, and Budapest. Recommendations 
in these cities can save fuel and lower 
emissions for up to 32 million car rides 
monthly.
 79 Early numbers from Green Light 
indicate the potential to reduce stops by up to 
30% and reduce emissions at intersections by 
up to 10%.
 80 
FIGURE 7 EV features in Search
EV comparison Fuel Cost Calculator Battery Range Explorer

 21 
Transit and  
urban mobility
We’re working to empower people with 
information on a wider range of transit and 
urban mobility options. We now feature more 
transportation options in Search, showcasing 
long-distance train routes in 38 countries and 
long-distance bus routes in 15 countries. For 
instance, high-speed rail suggestions may 
appear when searching for flights when the 
travel time is similar. 
We’re also making public transit and 
commuting in urban areas easier with 
Google Maps:
• Public transit: Users can access bus, train,
subway, and ferry directions by tapping on
the Google Maps transit icon. Google Maps
provides, on average, more than
3 billion kilometers (1.86 billion miles) of
public transit results per day.
• Bike routes and bike shares: In 2023, we
added over 30,000 kilometers (18,000 miles)
of bike lanes to Google Maps. Individuals
can also find nearby bike and scooter shares
in over 400 cities around the world.
• Walking directions: Pedestrians can easily
get walking routes, turn-by-turn directions,
and use Live View to get augmented reality
assistance on the go. Google Maps offers
Immersive View and Street View to preview a
route before you go.
Flying
We’re working on a number of solutions that 
help mitigate the climate impact of flying. 
When individuals search in Google Flights, 
they see carbon emissions estimates  for 
nearly every flight—right next to price and 
duration (see Figure 8). If people want to 
view only flights that have lower emissions 
compared to the average for similar trips, they 
can simply tap the “Less emissions only” filter. 
We created the Travel Impact Model (TIM), a 
public model for predicting the per-passenger 
CO
2e emissions produced by a flight. This 
powers the emissions estimates you see 
on Google Flights as well as other leading 
travel sites through our work in the Travalyst 
coalition. We’ve seen positive industry 
adoption of our model in aviation and, in 2023, 
we formalized our efforts by establishing an 
independent advisory committee to oversee 
future changes to the TIM. 
Contrails—the thin, white lines that can 
appear behind aircraft—trap heat within 
the earth’s atmosphere and are significant 
contributors to climate change, accounting 
for about 35% of aviation’s contribution to 
global warming emissions.
 81 To mitigate 
contrails, Google Research partnered with 
Breakthrough Energy and American Airlines 
to develop an AI-based tool to predict where 
contrails will form. We share insights from 
this tool with the aviation community so it can 
safely reroute planes to reduce the chances  
of contrail formation. In one trial consisting of  
70 test flights, use of the predictive 
technology reduced contrails by 54%.
 82  
Since only a small number of flights need to 
be adjusted to avoid the majority of contrail 
warming, the incremental fuel impact could 
be quite small when considering an airline’s 
entire fleet—potentially as low as 0.3%.
 83 Our 
analysis suggests that the cost of reducing 
contrail formation through navigational 
avoidance could be in the range of $5–$25/ton 
CO
2e, making it a very cost-effective climate 
solution. 84 Now, we’re broadening our efforts 
via a new partnership with EUROCONTROL to 
test contrail avoidance technology in dense 
European airspace.
FIGURE 8 Google Flights emissions estimates
Authoritative information
When people come to our  
products and platforms looking for 
answers, we aim to provide high-
quality, authoritative, and decision-
useful information.
On Search, for example, we’re 
making it easier for people to find 
climate change information by 
highlighting authoritative resources 
from the UN. When people search 
for “climate change” in certain 
languages, they’ll see authoritative 
information, such as its causes and 
effects, and individual actions they 
can take to live more sustainably. 
On YouTube, we raise authoritative 
voices on climate and provide 
contextual information panels 
in search results and videos, 
particularly for newsworthy 
environmental events or climate 
change-related searches. 
And we have a monetization policy 
for Google advertisers, publishers, 
and YouTube creators that prohibits 
ads for, and monetization of, 
content that contradicts well-
established scientific consensus 
around the existence and causes of 
climate change.

 22 
Additional sectors
Forests, land use, 
and agriculture
Forests
Every year the world loses around 10 million 
hectares (24.7 million acres) of forest,  85  
an area roughly the size of Hungary. 86
Google’s geospatial tools are empowering 
innovative solutions to protect forests and 
avoid deforestation. For example, we’re 
a founding partner of the Forest Data 
Partnership, which aims to stop deforestation 
caused by commodity production. Our 
Cloud partners, like NGIS (and their solution 
TraceMark) and Satelligence, help companies 
on their journey toward compliant and 
sustainable supply chains by assessing 
deforestation and other environmental risks 
using satellite technology and data processing 
on Google Cloud. And our Cloud partner 
Kumi Analytics can help estimate the carbon 
captured from reforestation for carbon credit 
issuance, using a scalable, transparent, and 
Google Cloud-powered assessment tool.
The UN Food & Agricultural Organization has 
been working for nearly a decade to create 
measurement, reporting, and verification 
(MRV) tools that countries can use to map, 
monitor, and report their forest change. 
Google Earth Engine and Google Earth are 
being used for MRV, enabling countries 
to better measure associated emissions 
reductions and receive payments based  
on positive results. For more details on  
Google Earth Engine and Google Earth,  
see the Multi-sector products section in  
the Appendix.
Farmland 
Increasing agricultural productivity and 
sustainability is imperative to feed the planet’s 
growing p
opulation. 87
Google Cloud provides customers and 
partners with a number of insights related to 
agricultural productivity. Our Cloud partner 
A
irbus owns and operates optical and radar 
satellites, and uses their data to, for example, 
help farmers minimize excessive water and 
fertilizer use while maintaining or increasing 
crop yields. KfW—a German development 
bank—uses satellite data through our 
Cloud partner UP42 to monitor irrigation  
infrastructure 
along the Niger River, which is 
key to food security across the region.
Ocean ecosystems
Understanding and protecting ocean 
ecosystems is essential for promoting 
sustainable practices and healthy  
marine environments.
Founded in 2015 as a collaboration between 
Oceana, SkyTruth, and Google, Global Fishing 
Watch is an open-source platform that uses 
satellite data and machine learning to monitor 
the planet’s fisheries. In 2023, Global Fishing 
Watch was awarded $60 million by the 
TED 
Audacious Project. To learn more, see Global 
Fishing Watch’s 2023 TED talk.
Tidal—founded as a project at X—uses 
underwater camera systems and machine 
perception tools to bring visibility to our ocean 
ecosystems, so we can better understand and 
protect them and help solve some of 
hu
manity’s biggest challenges—from food 
production to climate change. In 2023, 
Tidal was included in Time Magazine’s 
Best Inventions of 2023 for its undersea AI 
capabilities. Tidal is currently working with 
aquaculture partners across the globe, 
including Norway-based Mowi, the world’s 
largest Atlantic salmon producer. From 
launching commercially in early 2023 to 
February 2024, Mowi has installed Tidal 
systems in nearly 300 pens across Norway—
making Tidal’s insights available for improving 
the sustainability and efficiency of its 
aquaculture op
erations.
Industrial
The industrial sector is critical in the fight 
against climate change and it presents unique 
challenges in mitigating GHG emissions. 
At Google, we’re using cutting-edge 
technologies to support organizations in 
addressing emissions like methane leaks  from 
the oil and gas sector.
Methane leaks
Methane is a potent greenhouse gas, over 
80 times more powerful than carbon dioxide. 
Tackling methane emissions effectively will 
require collaboration between industry 
stakeholders and the public sector to track 
emissions and implement mitigation efforts. 
To help, the Environmental Defense Fund 
(EDF) will use a new satellite—MethaneSAT—
to map, measure, and track methane 
with unprecedented precision, offering a 
comprehensive view of oil and gas methane 
emissions globally. EDF’s algorithms, powered 
by Google Cloud, will calculate the amount of 
methane emitted in specific places and track 
those emissions over time (see Figure 9).
As part of a partnership with EDF, we’re using 
this information to build a global map of oil 
and gas infrastructure to help identify the 
components most responsible for methane 
emissions. These insights will be available 
later this year on MethaneSAT’s website, and 
accessible through Google Earth Engine. 
Additionally, our Cloud partner BlueSky  
Resources uses Google Earth Engine to 
integrate a range of sensor data and satellite 
imagery, empowering organizations to 
pinpoint methane emission sources and 
develop targeted mitigation strategies.
Recycling 
In addition to recycling features within our 
products, we’re working on technology pilots 
that advance recycling process optimization 
for the industry. In 2023, X deployed its 
first advanced sortation technology pilot 
in a materials recovery facility in Oregon, 
demonstrating the ability to achieve high 
resolution materials identification and 
intelligent sortation at industrial speeds  
and scale. 
Meanwhile, Google’s AI technology, 
CircularNet, powers Recykal’s waste 
management platform—Asia’s largest  
circular economy marketplace—enabling 
the identification of recyclable materials  
with high accuracy.
FIGURE 9 MethaneAIR on Google Earth Engine
EDF’s aerial methane emissions data, 
or MethaneAIR—available in Earth 
Engine—shows both high-emitting point 
sources as yellow dots, and diffuse area 
sources as a purple and yellow heat map. 
MethaneSAT will collect this data with the 
same technology, at a global scale and 
with more frequency.
RESOURCES
• Google Cloud Sustainability
•  Searching for Sustainability with Google
• Sustainable with Google 2023
• The Search for Sustainability

 23 
Adaptation and resilience
We aim to develop tools and technologies that help communities adapt to the effects of climate change
Our approach 
Extreme event forecasting 
and early warning systems
Weather and climate forecasting
Wildfire detection
Flood forecasting
Extreme heat
Air quality conditions

 24 
Our approach to climate adaptation and resilience
We’ve discussed the ways we’re 
helping people make more 
sustainable choices to mitigate 
climate change, but its effects are 
already here. 2023 was the hottest 
year on record, the past decade 
was the hottest ever recorded,
 88 
and communities worldwide—
especially the most vulnerable—
are experiencing the devastating 
effects of floods, wildfires, food 
insecurity, and more.
During extreme weather events, people  
often turn to our platforms for information. 
Global search interest in “heat wave” and 
“heat exhaustion” both spiked during the 
month of July 2023,
 89 during the warmest July 
ever recorded. 90 For events like these, timely 
information is critical to help minimize damage 
and loss.
To help communities adapt to the effects of 
climate change and stay safe, we’re building 
technologies to model, predict, and respond 
to extreme weather events, wildfires, floods, 
extreme heat, and air quality conditions (see 
Figure 10).
AI plays a critical role in powering these 
platforms—enabling more accurate 
predictions, real-time data analysis, and 
personalized insights to aid in adaptation 
efforts. We’re also leveraging AI to create 
more accurate models in data-scarce regions, 
improving and expanding extreme event 
forecasting and early warning systems.
FIGURE 10 Areas of focus for extreme event forecasting and early 
warning systems
Weather and climate forecasting 
Our innovations in forecast modeling and cloud simulation 
technology are providing more accurate and timely weather 
and climate information
Wildfire detection 
Our alerts, simulation models, and wildfire risk forecasting 
systems are helping provide accurate wildfire information to 
affected communities and fire authorities
Flood forecasting 
Our AI-powered flood forecasting platform can predict when 
and where riverine flooding will occur up to seven days in 
advance
Extreme heat 
Through extreme heat alerts on Search and tree canopy and 
reflective roof data in the Environmental Insights Explorer 
(EIE), our insights are helping keep people cool and safe
Air quality conditions 
Our tools provide hyperlocal air quality data, enabling 
informed health decisions and strategies for cleaner air
2023 highlights
• Crisis Alerts for wildfires: Our 
Crisis Alerts provided timely wildfire 
information to over 30 million users 
across 180 wildfire events around 
the world.
• Flood Hub: Flood Hub displayed 
forecasts for over 80 countries on 
five continents, including some 
of the territories with the highest 
percentages of population exposed 
to flood risk—covering more than 
460 million people globally.
 91
• Extreme heat information: 
Since launching, we’ve provided 
information about extreme heat on 
Search in more than 100 countries.
• Cool Roofs pilot: Our Cool Roofs 
pilot was available in 15 cities.
• Tree Canopy data: We expanded 
Tree Canopy data in EIE to more 
than 2,000 cities globally on  
four continents.
Global challenges
• Data gaps and uncertainties: 
Accessing reliable local climate 
projections remains a barrier to 
effective adaptation planning. Data 
quality, resolution, and availability 
can vary significantly by region, 
hindering accurate risk assessments 
and tailored solutions.
• Long-term planning: Climate 
adaptation often requires long-
term investments and complex 
trade-offs which can be difficult to 
prioritize, especially when decision-
makers face competing needs like 
immediate economic concerns.
• Local collaboration: Successful 
adaptation requires collaboration 
across multiple stakeholders: 
governments, businesses, 
communities, and individuals. 
Coordination, communication, 
and resource alignment can be 
challenging, slowing down the 
implementation of solutions.
• Metrics and measurement:  The 
inherent complexity of measuring 
the effectiveness of adaptation 
actions is compounded by 
uncertainty about future climate 
scenarios, making it challenging to 
evaluate success.

 25 
Extreme event forecasting and early warning systems
Weather and climate 
forecasting
Our innovative weather and climate 
forecasting tools are providing communities 
with crucial information to plan for and 
respond to a changing climate.
Weather forecasting
Google’s MetNet-3 is a state-of-the-art neural 
weather model that outperforms leading 
operational forecasting systems. Its precise 
precipitation forecasts for 12 hours into the 
future have been integrated into various 
Google products, enhancing the information 
and tools available to people. Meanwhile, 
Google DeepMind’s GraphCast model delivers 
10-day weather predictions at unprecedented 
accuracy in under one minute, and offers 
earlier warnings of extreme weather events. 
And, in 2023, Google Research launched 
WeatherBench 2 , a platform that enables 
researchers to compare global weather 
models and drive innovation in this field.
Cloud simulations
Google Research, in collaboration with a 
Climate Modeling Alliance (CliMA) lead, is 
achieving breakthroughs in cloud modeling, 
significantly improving climate model 
accuracy. Today’s climate predictions vary 
widely, largely because it’s so difficult to 
simulate clouds accurately—which is why 
we’re focusing on simulating stratocumulus 
clouds, the most prevalent cloud type. Using 
TPUs and high-performance computing 
originally designed for machine learning 
applications, we’re able to simulate cloud 
patterns with unprecedented detail, offering a 
glimpse into the future climate.
Wildfire detection
Climate change is increasing the frequency 
and severity of wildfires, which are having 
a devastating impact on communities and 
ecosystems around the world.
 92  This growing 
threat is reflected in the all-time high global 
searches for “air quality index” and “wildfire” 
in June 2023,
 93 coinciding with the peak of the 
Canada wildfires that year. 94
To minimize the impact of wildfires on 
communities, Google has developed an AI-
based technology to map wildfires in near 
real time in Google Search and Maps. The tool 
uses data from geostationary satellites such as 
NOAA’s GOES constellation to show the size 
of a wildfire, with data refreshed roughly every 
15 to 20 minutes. In 2023, our Crisis Alerts 
provided timely wildfire information to over 30 
million users across 180 wildfire events around 
the world.
We’ve also been working closely with U.S. 
agencies, such as the U.S. Forest Service 
(USFS), on wildfire research by using  
advanced simulation and AI techniques to 
improve their fire-spread model. Additionally, 
USFS used Google Earth Engine and Google 
Cloud technology to build a Landscape 
Change Monitoring System to map and 
monitor land cover change across the United 
States, supporting forest planning and post-
fire recovery.
To help prevent catastrophic fires in the future, 
X’s Project Bellwether—as part of its prediction 
engine for the Earth and everything on it—has 
built an AI-first wildfire risk forecasting system 
to understand the future probability of wildfire 
in the United States, Canada, and Australia. X 
partnered with SwissRe Reinsurance Solutions 
and others to bring these critical insights to 
the insurance market, where better tools are 
needed to keep homeowners insured.
This work is important for fostering a 
more resilient society, as it enables better 
understanding of wildfire risks and informs 
actions that can protect communities and 
homeowners from the devastating impacts of 
these events.
Flood forecasting
Floods are among the world’s deadliest 
natural disasters, and climate change is 
causing more frequent and severe floods.
 95 
Our Flood Forecasting Initiative , launched 
in 2018, uses advanced AI and geospatial 
analysis to predict when and where   
riverine flooding will occur up to seven  
days in advance. 
The system, called Flood Hub, displays 
flood forecasts to help governments, aid 
organizations, and at-risk communities 
take timely action (see Figure 11). These 
breakthroughs are a result of innovative 
modeling approaches  that use machine 
learning to create scalable models in real-
world settings.
In 2023, Flood Hub displayed forecasts 
for over 80 countries on five continents, 
including some of the territories with the 
highest percentages of population exposed 
to flood risk—covering more than 460 million 
people globally.
 96 In late 2023, we announced 
the expansion of riverine flood forecasts on 
Flood Hub to the United States and Canada, 
covering more than 800 locations by rivers 
where more than 12 million people live.
 97 
In 2023, we generated nearly 700 Crisis  
Alerts that shared critical flood information, 
including mappings of estimated flooded 
areas, which were viewed by more than 10 
million users.
FIGURE 11 Google’s Flood Hub platform
Extreme heat
In 2023, we launched extreme heat alerts , 
so when people search for information on 
extreme heat, they see details they need 
about when a heat wave is predicted to start 
and end, tips for staying cool, and related 
health concerns to be aware of from the 
Global Heat Health Information Network (see 
Figure 12). Since launching, we’ve provided 
information about extreme heat on Search in 
more than 100 countries.
FIGURE 12 Extreme heat alerts

 26 
Tree canopy
Cities are looking for ways to prevent “heat 
islands”—urban areas that experience higher 
temperatures due to structures like roads and 
buildings that absorb and re-emit heat. Our 
Tree Canopy tool, part of our EIE platform, 
uses AI and aerial imagery to detect and 
map tree canopy coverage in cities to help 
them plan future tree planting projects more 
effectively (see Figure 13).
For example, the city of Austin, Texas used 
insights from this tool to develop Austin’s 
Community Tree Priority Map, helping to focus 
tree planting efforts in the eastern part of 
the city where tree coverage was lower and 
ambient temperatures were higher. 
In 2023, we expanded Tree Canopy data 
to more than 2,000 cities globally on four 
continents. With the aim of making shade 
in cities more equitably distributed, we 
partnered with American Forests in the United  
States to make our tree canopy data available 
on its Tree Equity Score tool. American Forests 
now provides tree canopy data for nearly  
80% of the U.S. population. The success of this 
project has led to the development of a similar 
tool for the United Kingdom.
Cool roofs
We’re exploring how our technology, such 
as AI algorithms and aerial imagery, can help 
implement reflective roofs—called “cool roofs.”
These energy-saving roofs reduce indoor 
and outdoor temperatures, making them 
especially impactful in communities without 
reliable air conditioning. By mapping urban 
solar reflectivity, we can help planners and 
governments identify areas where cool roofs 
would be most impactful. As of the end of 
2023, this pilot was available in 15 cities.
Addressing extreme heat requires 
collaboration, so Google.org is supporting 
nonprofit projects that identify which 
communities are most affected by extreme 
heat and where there are opportunities to 
help. In 2022, we announced a $30 million 
Google.org Impact Challenge —an open  
call for nonprofits to submit big ideas for 
climate action. 
In 2023, we announced the first recipient: 
World Resources Institute (WRI). WRI received 
$5 million to support its project to use sensors, 
satellite imagery, and AI to close data gaps 
and model air temperature, humidity, surface 
reflectivity, tree cover, and heat vulnerability. 
Alongside Google.org’s efforts, WRI’s project 
will help decision-makers understand where to 
implement cool surface infrastructure—such 
as trees and reflective surfaces—to reduce the 
impact of extreme heat.
FIGURE 13
Tree Canopy data 
for Lisbon, Portugal
Air quality conditions
With climate change intensifying wildfires, 
ozone pollution, and allergy seasons,  98 
Google’s hyperlocal air quality data empowers 
individuals, companies, researchers, and 
policymakers to make informed health choices 
and develop strategies for cleaner air.
In 2023, we introduced a new suite of 
Environment APIs from Google Maps Platform, 
which included:
• Air quality: The Air Quality API shows robust
air quality data, pollution heatmaps, and
pollutant details for nearly 100 countries
around the world. IKE Smart Cities is using
this data to alert residents of poor air quality
and provide city partners with a dashboard
to monitor conditions alongside other
relevant data. This helps cities implement
protective measures for citizens and visitors.
• Pollen: Our new Pollen API shows current
pollen information for the most common
allergens in over 65 countries. The API
provides localized pollen count data,
heatmap visualizations, detailed plant
allergen information, and actionable tips for
allergy-sufferers to limit exposure.
RESOURCES
• How We’re Using AI to Combat
Floods, Wildfires and Extreme Heat
• How We Are Using AI for Reliable
Flood Forecasting at a Global Scale
• Sustainable with Google 2023
EIE’s air quality data for Bengaluru, India.
SPOTLIGHT
Hyperlocal air quality data in Bengaluru, India
EIE provides select cities with street-by-street air quality data, 
helping them identify opportunities for improvement. 
By equipping Google Street View 
vehicles with air pollution sensors and 
partnering with local organizations, 
we’ve collected nearly 2 billion air 
quality measurements across more 
than 230 million locations—and have 
integrated all this data into EIE. With 
real-time, hyperlocal modeled air quality 
intelligence, Google aims to make 
invisible air pollution easier to address.
In 2023, we launched street-by-street 
air quality data for Bengaluru in EIE—our 
first city to launch in India. This launch 
was the result of a year and a half of 
deep scientific partnership with the 
Center for Study of Science, Technology 
and Policy (CSTEP) and ILK Labs. 
CSTEP collected air quality data by 
installing sensors on its cars and 
driving them around precalculated 
routes in Bengaluru, and published  
its methodology for collecting and 
analyzing hyperlocal data. 
We then integrated CSTEP’s calibrated 
data into EIE, with the goal of making 
it easily accessible to policymakers, 
pollution authorities, and the local 
scientific community to identify air 
pollution hotspots in Bengaluru. We 
plan to collect additional data for 
more pollutants in Bengaluru with our 
partners.

 27 
Our approach
Net-zero carbon
Water stewardship
Circular economy
Nature and biodiversity
Our operations

 28 
Our approach to operating sustainably
We’re working to advance our ambitious sustainability goals, showing the way forward through our own operations
In 2023, Google had offices and 
data centers on six continents,  
in over 200 cities, across nearly  
60 countries. 
We use energy and natural resources to  
build and operate our data centers and  
offices around the world, and to power 
the many products and services that our 
customers and users rely on—including 
Google Cloud, Google Search, Google 
Workspace, and YouTube.
That’s why our work on sustainability started 
with understanding and working to address 
the environmental footprint of our operations. 
At Google, we’re working to drive 
sustainability across our operations in four 
key ways: accelerating the transition to a  
net-zero future, advancing water stewardship, 
building a circular economy, and restoring and 
enhancing nature and biodiversity.
We’re also working worldwide with suppliers 
through our Supplier Responsibility Program . 
We collaborate with stakeholders across our 
supply chain to uphold our high standards for 
respecting workers and the environment.
FIGURE 14 Google’s global operations
6
continents
200+
cities
~60
countries
24
Google-owned data 
center locations 99 
44
data center electricity grid regions 
(including third party)
~40
Google Cloud
regions
Wind turbines spin near our Eemshaven, Netherlands data center.

 29 
Net-zero carbon
We’re working to accelerate the transition to a net-zero future at Google and beyond
Our approach
Our net-zero goal
Reducing carbon emissions
Scope 1 emissions
Electrification
Refrigerant mitigation
Renewable fuels
Scope 2 emissions
Energy management
Carbon-free energy
Scope 3 emissions
Supplier engagement
Embodied carbon
Sustainable travel
Managing residual emissions

 30 
Our approach to net-zero carbon
We’re working to accelerate the 
transition to a net-zero future, and 
we’ve taken significant steps over 
the past two decades to minimize 
our GHG emissions.
In 2021, we set an ambitious goal to reach net-
zero emissions across all of our operations and 
value chain by 2030. We’re working toward 
this goal in two key ways: first, we’re focused 
on reducing emissions across our operations 
and value chain (including advancing 24/7 
CFE), and after reducing our emissions, we’re 
addressing our residual emissions with carbon 
removals (see Figure 15). 
Ultimately this isn’t just about Google—our 
net-zero goal is a key tool by which we can 
help accelerate global decarbonization. To 
ensure our efforts maximize impact, we’ll 
continue evaluating our plan on a regular  
basis to ensure it’s rigorous, grounded in 
science, and realistic in light of evolving 
challenges and standards.
We’re engaging in advocacy efforts, exploring 
data center innovations, accelerating global 
grid decarbonization, and advocating for 
GHG Protocol reform to help drive system-
level change. For more details, see the 
Policymakers and Partners sections in the 
Appendix, as well as Energy in the Our 
products section for how we’re working  
to advance clean energy development 
through Google’s core capabilities in data  
and software.
FIGURE 15 We prioritize emissions reductions first before 
compensating for residual emissions
Reducing carbon 
emissions 
Reduce emissions across our operations 
and value chain through various levers
Managing residual 
emissions
After reducing our emissions, we’ll 
work to address our residual emissions 
through carbon removal solutions
Reducing carbon 
emissions 
Reduce emissions across our 
operations and value chain 
through various levers
Managing residual 
emissions
After reducing our emissions, 
we’ll work to address our 
residual emissions through 
carbon removal solutions
2023 highlights
• CFE: We maintained 64% carbon-
free energy, on average, across 
every grid where we operate—even 
as our electricity use increased. 
• Clean energy procurement: 
We signed contracts to purchase 
approximately 4 GW of clean 
energy generation capacity
 100—
more than in any prior year.
• 100% renewable energy:   
We achieved seven consecutive 
years of 100% renewable  
energy matching on a global  
and annual basis.
 101
• Energy innovation: We developed, 
piloted, and advanced innovative 
new approaches to energy 
management and tracking, 
including demand response and 
time-based energy attribute 
certificates (T-EACs).
• Carbon removal procurement:  
We completed our first carbon 
removal credit offtake deals 
through Frontier in 2023—including 
deals with Charm Industrial, 
CarbonCapture, and Lithos Carbon.
Global challenges
• Need for systemic changes: Transitioning to a net-zero future will require 
stronger government policies and partnerships, new technologies, and structural 
changes to the broader systems that support our operations and value chain, 
such as electricity grids and hardware supply chains. Reform is needed across 
clean energy transmission, interconnection, and generation in order to upgrade 
and expand grid infrastructure to meet the needs of a more electrified and 
decarbonized world.
• Evolving standards and regulations:  Faster reform and greater harmonization 
of various climate-related standards and regulations would help further 
streamline corporate decision-making, particularly for long-term emissions 
reductions strategies. 
• Hard-to-decarbonize industries and regions:  Global operations and value 
chains that span a diverse range of industries and regions present a unique 
decarbonization challenge, particularly within hard-to-abate sectors and carbon-
intensive geographies like the Asia-Pacific region.
• Collaborating with suppliers:  The maturity of supplier climate programs 
and their commitments to taking action can vary widely when working with a 
large number of direct and indirect suppliers—which can impact engagement 
strategies and the availability and quality of supplier-specific data.
• Availability of carbon-free energy: There are often long lead times between 
investments and resulting GHG reductions. With new carbon-free energy 
projects, it can take years before contracted projects are constructed and begin 
to generate clean electricity. These delays are often due to slow permitting 
processes, inadequate grid infrastructure, and challenges in the renewable 
energy supply chain. Sometimes these issues can also lead to projects failing and 
CFE contracts terminating prior to those projects becoming operational.
• Cost and availability of carbon removals: Due to the early stage of the carbon 
removals market, the volumes of removal credits available for purchase, as well 
as the quality and permanence of credits, may vary. Additionally, many solutions 
will require long lead times to scale, as well as significant improvements in 
measurement and system design.

 31 
Our net-zero goal
In 2021, we set a goal to reach net-
zero emissions across all of our 
operations and value chain by 2030.
To meet this goal, we aim to reduce 50% of our 
combined Scope 1, Scope 2 (market-based), 
and Scope 3 absolute emissions (compared 
to our 2019 base year) by 2030, and we plan 
to invest in nature-based and technology-
based carbon removal solutions to neutralize 
our remaining emissions. We’ve formally 
committed to the Science Based Targets 
initiative (SBTi) to validate our absolute 
emissions reduction target.
Reaching net-zero emissions by 2030 is an 
extremely ambitious goal and we know it won’t 
be easy. Our approach will continue to evolve 
and will require us to navigate significant 
uncertainty–including the uncertainty around 
the future environmental impact of AI, which 
is complex and difficult to predict. In addition, 
solutions for some key global challenges don’t 
currently exist, and will depend heavily on the 
broader clean energy transition. 
As our business and industry continue to 
evolve, we expect our total GHG emissions 
to rise before dropping toward our absolute 
emissions reduction target.
Our net-zero goal is aligned with the  
IPCC’s definition of “net zero emissions,” 
which is “when anthropogenic emissions of 
greenhouse gasses to the atmosphere are 
balanced by anthropogenic removals over a 
specified period.” The world’s understanding 
of “net zero” remains in a dynamic state and 
is subject to refinement as global consensus 
develops. We’ll proactively monitor the 
evolution of global standards to ensure our 
definition maintains general alignment while 
maximizing our positive impact on the planet.
In 2023, our total GHG emissions were 14.3 
million tCO
2e, representing a 13% year-over-
year increase and a 48% increase compared 
to our 2019 target base year. This result was 
primarily due to increases in data center 
energy consumption and supply chain 
emissions. As we further integrate AI into 
our products, reducing emissions may be 
challenging due to increasing energy demands 
from the greater intensity of AI compute, and 
the emissions associated with the expected 
increases in our technical infrastructure 
investment. 
Rødby solar farm in Denmark (55 MW for Google)
TARGET
Reduce 50% of our combined Scope 1, 2 (market-based), and 3 absolute GHG emissions 
by 2030, 102 and invest in nature-based and technology-based carbon removal solutions 
to neutralize our remaining emissions
Year set: 2021; Base year: 2019  103; Target year: 2030
2023 PROGRESS 
Emissions reductions: Total GHG emissions were 14.3 million 
tCO
2e, representing a 48% increase compared to 2019
Residual emissions: Signed offtake deals for approximately 
62,500 tCO
2e of removal credits
TREND  
Emissions reductions:  In 2023, our total 
GHG emissions increased 13% year-over-
year, partially driven by a 37% year-over-year 
increase in our Scope 2 (market-based) 
emissions. Our total GHG emissions increased 
at a slower rate compared to the previous two 
years. For trend details for each scope, see  
the Scope 1 emissions, Scope 2 emissions ,  
and Scope 3 emissions sections. 
Residual emissions: 2023 marks the first year 
of implementation of our carbon removals 
strategy, and while we have a long way to 
go to meet our 2030 target, we’ve begun 
establishing impactful partnerships and have 
started contracting for carbon removal credits. 
For more detail, see the Managing residual  
emissions section.  
DETAILS 
Emissions reductions: All Scope 1, 2 (market-
based), and 3 absolute emissions across our 
operations and value chain, including our data 
center and office operations, supply chain, and 
consumer hardware devices.
Residual emissions: Carbon removal credits 
to neutralize our residual emissions by 2030. 
Legend
Business as usual (footprint in absence of PPAs)
Total emissions
20
Million tCO2e
10
0
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
15
5
14.3
12.6
10.8
8.69.7


 32 
Reducing carbon emissions
In 2023, our total GHG emissions 
were approximately 14.3 million 
metric tons of carbon dioxide 
equivalent (tCO
2e), which 
represents our Scope 1, Scope 
2 (market-based), and Scope 3 
emissions (see Figure 16).
We’ve analyzed our operations and value 
chain to pinpoint specific levers that will drive 
carbon reductions across Scope 1, Scope 2, 
and Scope 3 emissions. While our reduction 
efforts are crucial, they alone won’t get us all 
the way to our net zero goal. 
Carbon footprint 
recalculation
In 2023, we recalculated certain previously 
reported GHG emissions metrics in 
accordance with our internal recalculation 
policy for improved accuracy. 
See the Recalculation of previous environmental 
metrics section in the Appendix for more 
information on our carbon footprint 
recalculation, and the Environmental data tables 
for more details on our GHG emissions.
FIGURE 16 Our 2023 carbon footprint
Total emissions: 
14.3M tCO2e
Scope 1:
79.4K tCO2e
Scope 3:
10.8M tCO
2e
Scope 2: 
3.4M tCO
2e
Scope 1:
79.4K tCO
2e
Scope 3:
10.8M tCO
2e
Scope 2: 
3.4M tCO
2e
Scope 1:
79.4K tCO
2e
Scope 3:
10.8M tCO
2e
Scope 1:
79.4K tCO
2e
Scope 3:
10.8M tCO
2e
Scope 2: 
3.4M tCO
2e
Scope 1:
79.4K tCO
2e
Scope 3:
10.8M tCO
2e
Scope 2: 
3.4M tCO
2e
Scope 1:
79.4K tCO
2e
Scope 3:
10.8M tCO
2e
Scope 2: 
3.4M tCO
2e
Scope tCO2e %
Scope 1 79,400 1%
Scope 2 (market-based) 3,423,400 24%
Scope 3: (1) Purchased goods and services 4,038,000 28%
Scope 3: (2) Capital goods 1,605,000 11%
Scope 3: (3) Fuel- and energy-related
activities (not included in Scope 1 or 2) 1,186,000 8%
Scope 3: (4) Upstream transportation 584,000 4%
Scope 3: (5) Waste generated in operations 10,000 <1%
Scope 3: (6) Business travel 283,000 2%
Scope 3: (7) Employee commuting 
(including teleworking) 113,000 <1%
Scope 3: Other categories 2,993,000 21%
Scope 3 (total) 10,812,000 75%
Total emissions 14,314,800 100%
Scope 1 emissions
In 2023, our Scope 1 emissions were 
approximately 79,400 tCO2e, representing 
approximately 1% of our total carbon 
footprint. Compared to 2022, we reduced 
our Scope 1 emissions by 13% due to building 
electrification and decreases in emissions 
from transportation and data center generator 
use. Our main sources of Scope 1 emissions 
include natural gas use, refrigerant leakage 
in our data centers and offices, fuel use from 
back-up generators, and transportation (i.e., 
company vehicles and aircraft). Given this, 
some of our key Scope 1 emissions reduction 
levers include electrification, refrigerant 
mitigation, and renewable fuels. 
Electrification
Electrification—followed by clean energy 
procurement—is an essential first step  
toward decarbonizing our office and shuttle 
fleet operations. 
We’re working to electrify our office portfolio, 
including retrofitting existing building systems, 
incorporating electrification standards into 
new developments (such as designing  
all-electric kitchens), and working with 
property owners on lease terms that support 
building electrification.
In 2023, we completed 14 full or partial 
office building electrification projects 
around the world—including in India, Brazil, 
and the San Francisco Bay Area—and we 
pledged to upgrade the iconic Thompson  
Center in Chicago to an all-electric office 
building. And in 2023, we signed our first 
leases in the Google office portfolio with 
electrification provisions—located in the Asia-
Pacific region—with more currently under 
negotiation.
Our Moffett Park Thermal Plant in Sunnyvale, 
California, demonstrates electrification at 
scale—as an all-electric central utility plant 
that will efficiently deliver heating and cooling 
services to some nearby Google offices. 
And for our shuttle fleet operations, in 2023  
we incorporated additional electric shuttle 
buses into our fleet in the San Francisco Bay 
Area, increasing the electric vehicles in our 
fleet to 14%.
Refrigerant mitigation
We’re working to more accurately measure 
refrigerant leak rates and develop new 
technologies to reduce them. At our data 
centers, we’re developing and deploying 
cooling solutions that include natural, low-
GWP refrigerants. And in 2023, we  
completed 24 Technical Feasibility Studies  
for refrigerant phase-out for offices in the 
Asia-Pacific region. 
We also continued working with industry 
partners to identify innovations in technology 
and refrigerants. In 2023, we submitted a 
follow-on patent to the one we filed in 2022, 
incorporating the use of large language 
models for “intelligent diagnostics.” Based  
on our pilots, intelligent diagnostics can 
provide operators with guidance to locate 
leaks, helping to both curb refrigerant 
emissions and reduce energy consumption 
from faulty equipment.
Renewable fuels
We’re exploring ways to reduce the carbon 
footprint of our data center backup power. 
One solution is renewable diesel, which 
offers lower life cycle carbon emissions 
compared to fossil fuels. In 2023, we piloted 
renewable diesel in select U.S. and European 
data centers, and plan to scale this program 
globally as renewable diesel availability 
increases. And we use renewable diesel 
for some of the non-electric vehicles in our 
corporate fleet. 
Scope 2: 
3.4M tCO2e

 33 
Scope 2 emissions
In 2023, our Scope 2 (market-based) emissions 
were approximately 3.4 million tCO2e, 
representing 24% of our total carbon footprint. 
Our main source of Scope 2 emissions is 
purchased electricity for our data centers 
and offices. Given that we have more direct 
control over our data centers and offices 
than many other parts of our value chain, 
Scope 2 emissions are a key focus of our 
decarbonization efforts. Some of our key 
Scope 2 emissions reduction levers include 
energy management and carbon-free  
energy procurement.
As of the end of 2023, we achieved seven 
consecutive years of 100% renewable energy 
matching on a global and annual basis, even 
as our electricity consumption increased (see 
Figure 17).
 104 Through our power purchase 
agreements (PPAs), we achieved a 63% 
reduction in the emissions from our electricity 
use in 2023 (see Figure 18). And from 2011 to 
2023, our carbon-free energy purchasing has 
resulted in cumulative emissions savings of 
more than 36 million tCO
2e 105—equivalent to 
taking more than 8 million fuel-based cars off 
the road for a year, or the carbon sequestered 
by more than 42 million acres of U.S. forests in 
a year.
 106
However, compared to 2022, our Scope 2 
(market-based) emissions—which originate 
primarily from our data center electricity 
consumption—increased by 37%, despite 
considerable efforts and progress on carbon-
free energy. This was due to data center 
electricity consumption outpacing our ability 
to bring more CFE projects online, specifically 
in the United States and Asia-Pacific region, 
CFE contracts terminating prior to those 
projects becoming operational, and the 
current mismatch between our approach 
to CFE and the GHG Protocol’s Scope 2 
guidance. In fact, despite achieving a 100% 
global renewable energy match, our Scope 2 
emissions have increased (see more details on 
this mismatch on the following page). 
Energy management
Our data centers remain some of the most 
efficient in the world, and we continue 
working to optimize their use of electricity, 
water, and materials.
To optimize energy consumption at our data 
centers, we strive to build the world’s most 
energy-efficient compute infrastructure, 
outfitting each data center with high-
performance servers designed to use as little 
energy as possible compared to the amount of 
compute they process. On average, a  
Google-owned and -operated data center  
is approximately 1.8 times as energy efficient 
as a typical enterprise data center,
 107 and 
compared to five years ago, our data  
centers deliver nearly four times as much 
computing power with the same amount  
of electrical power.
 108
In 2023, the average annual power usage 
effectiveness (PUE) for our global fleet of data 
centers was 1.10, compared with the industry 
average of 1.58
 109—meaning that Google data 
centers used about 5.8 times less overhead 
energy for every unit of IT equipment energy. 
Since 2012, our average annual fleet-wide  
PUE has stayed at or below 1.12. For more 
information on our practices managing AI’s 
energy consumption and environmental 
impact, see the AI for sustainability section.
In 2023, we piloted a new demand response  
capability. By shifting some non-urgent 
compute tasks to other times and locations, 
we work with local utilities to reduce our  
data centers’ power consumption during  
high-stress periods to help grids operate  
more reliably and meet the needs of  
local communities.
To improve energy efficiency in our offices, 
we use data analytics to guide strategies 
like equipment upgrades, optimized building 
settings, and efficient lighting retrofits.  
For example, in 2023, we rolled out nearly  
20 energy conservation initiatives across our 
offices in the Asia-Pacific region, which we 
estimate helped reduce energy consumption 
by nearly 290 MWh, as compared to the  
prior year.
FIGURE 17 Renewable energy purchasing compared with total electricity
0
Google 
announced 100% 
renewable energy 
match goal
Google first 
achieved 100% 
renewable 
energy match
2
22
26
12
Terawatt-hours
20
24
10
18
8
16
6
14
4
2011 2012
34%
2013
35%
2014
37%
2015
48%
2016
61%
2017
100%
2018
100%
2019
100%
2020
100%
2021
100%
2022
100%
2023
100%
25.3
Renewable energy purchases
Total electricity consumption
Legend
FIGURE 18 Annual impact of CFE purchases on Scope 2 emissions
0
2
10
8
6
4
Million tCO2e
20232020 2021 20222019
9.3
8.0
6.6
5.9
5.1
3.4
2.5
1.8
0.90.8
63%  
reduction
Legend
Scope 2 location-based emissions (without CFE purchases)
Scope 2 market-based emissions (with CFE purchases)

Golden Hills wind farm in California (43 MW for Google)
 34 
SPOTLIGHT
Why our Scope 2 emissions have increased despite achieving a global 100% renewable energy match and maintaining 64% carbon-free energy
We believe that our greatest impact lies not only in advancing CFE for our own operations, but also in accelerating decarbonization of electrical grids around the world.
We started addressing our Scope 2 emissions in 
2010 with our first power purchase agreement 
from a new wind farm, and in 2017, we became the 
first major company to match 100% of the annual 
electricity consumption of our global operations 
with renewable energy purchases. However, 
despite achieving a 100% global renewable energy 
match in 2023 for the seventh consecutive year,  
our reported Scope 2 emissions increased. 
If we’re matching 100% of our electricity 
consumption with renewable energy, why does 
the accounting for our Scope 2 (market-based) 
emissions show an increase instead of being zero? 
It’s because our approach to date for  
100% renewable energy matching differs from 
the way Scope 2 emissions are calculated in 
accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol 
(GHG Protocol) (see Figure 19):
Key differences
• Global vs. market boundaries: We’ve taken a
global approach to our 100% renewable energy
matching goal. In contrast, the GHG Protocol
establishes regional market boundaries for clean
energy sourcing to reduce Scope 2 emissions. In
some regions, we purchase more clean energy
than our electricity consumption (such as in
Europe), while in other regions we purchase 
less (such as in the Asia-Pacific region) due to 
significant regional challenges in sourcing clean 
energy. The discrepancy between our energy 
consumption and clean energy purchases in 
these regions results in Scope 2 emissions. 
• Bundled energy and EACs: Our approach to
clean energy procurement to date prioritizes
purchasing physical electricity along with
associated “bundled” EACs.
 110 This helps ensure
the additionality of our clean energy projects
(i.e., that they’re new to the grid). While the GHG
Protocol allows companies to apply “unbundled”
EACs to their Scope 2 footprint, including from
existing clean energy projects, our “bundled”
approach prioritizes new clean energy projects,
which helps drive the clean energy transition but
leaves us with some regional gaps.
Looking ahead to 24/7 CFE
While our approach to date has resulted in a 
discrepancy between our Scope 2 emissions 
trend and our 100% renewable energy match, 
we believe our shift in focus to 24/7 CFE 
procurement—matching our consumption on an 
hourly basis from within the same grid—will have 
a more significant impact on grid decarbonization 
and the clean energy transition. Our pursuit of 
24/7 CFE remains one of our primary approaches 
to reducing our Scope 2 emissions. For more 
details about our methodologies, see the 
Methodology section in the Appendix. 
Further, we believe standards should move toward 
this approach, and to that end, we’ve shared 
feedback on how the GHG Protocol could update 
its Scope 2 Guidance to improve the accuracy 
of carbon inventories and still allow companies 
to take actions that demonstrably support 
decarbonization. The even more granular local and 
hourly accounting of 24/7 CFE provides a more 
accurate representation of corporate carbon 
footprints, and research has found that targeting 
24/7 CFE drives greater impact on grid-level 
decarbonization than other procurement goals, 
such as a 100% annual renewable energy match.
 111 
Learnings
• Our various goals (e.g., 100% renewable energy
matching and 24/7 CFE) are divergent from the
Scope 2 accounting rules, making progress
more complex. To simplify our execution, we’ll
need to better align across these approaches.
• We’ll continue to evaluate all high-quality
options to manage Scope 2 emissions, including
and beyond corporate PPAs, in the future.
FIGURE 19 Our 100% renewable energy matching and 
implications for Scope 2 emissions
Key differences Google’s 100% renewable 
energy match
Scope 2 emissions 
implications
Global 
vs
. market 
boundaries
Clean energy purchases are 
matched globally, which is 
broader than GHG Protocol 
regional market boundaries.
Clean energy purchases 
must be matched following 
GHG Protocol regional 
market boundaries, 
creating a gap where 
we operated but didn’t 
purchase enough clean 
energy in 2023.
Bundled energy 
and EACs
Prioritization of purchasing 
bundled energy and EACs, 
with some market-specific 
exceptions (see the Carbon-
free energy procurement 
section for more details).
Given our prioritization 
of new-to-the-grid 
CFE projects, we didn’t 
purchase unbundled EACs 
to reduce our Scope 2 
emissions in 2023.

 35 
Carbon-free energy
Our primary approach to reducing our Scope 
2 emissions is through the procurement of 
carbon-free energy.
 112  In 2020, we set a goal 
to run on 24/7 carbon-free energy—every 
hour of every day on every grid where we 
operate—by 2030. We’re working to achieve 
this through three main initiatives: purchasing 
carbon-free energy, accelerating new and 
improved technologies, and transforming the 
energy system through policy, partnerships, 
and advocacy.
 113 
Carbon-free energy procurement
Achieving 24/7 CFE is a far more complex and 
technically challenging pursuit than annually 
matching our energy use with renewable 
energy purchases, but we see this effort as 
crucial to a bigger picture: scaling new, global 
solutions for clean energy. 
We buy electricity directly from new clean 
energy projects through various methods 
depending on the market, including: 
contracting directly via long-term PPAs; 
working with utilities or developers to buy 
and deliver carbon-free energy; structuring 
energy supply contracts with energy providers 
through the CFE Manager model; and making 
targeted investments in renewable energy to 
enable additional projects on the grids where 
we operate.
From 2010 to 2023, we signed more than 115 
agreements to purchase over 14 GW of clean 
energy generation capacity
 115—the equivalent 
of more than 36 million solar panels.  116 Through 
these agreements, we estimate we’ll spend 
more than $16 billion to purchase clean energy 
through 2040.
 117
In 2023, we signed contracts to purchase 
approximately 4 GW of clean energy 
generation capacity
 118—more than in any  
prior year—including:
• North America: In Texas, Google signed
a contract for 150 MW of clean energy
generation capacity. We also signed a
contract for new wind, solar, and battery
storage in Arizona.
• Europe: In Poland, Google signed our
first contract for 42 MW of clean energy
generation capacity from the Przyrów
wind farm. And in Ireland , we signed our
first contract for 50 MW of clean energy
generation capacity from the Tullabeg solar
farm. In 2023, Google also signed contracts
for new clean energy generation capacity in
Belgium and the Netherlands .
• Asia Pacific: In Australia, we signed a
contract to add 25 MW of clean energy
generation capacity, with the solar farm
expected to be operational in 2025.
In early 2024, we announced a new set of PPAs 
—including our largest offshore wind projects 
to date—that will bring 700 MW of clean 
energy generation capacity to European grids.
Our 24/7 carbon-free energy goal
In 2023, we maintained a global average of 
approximately 64% carbon-free energy  
across our data centers and offices. 
Data centers 
Despite our total electricity load across all data 
centers increasing by roughly 3.5 TWh (17%), 
in 2023, we maintained a global average of 
approximately 64% CFE across all of our data 
center sites, inclusive of those operated by 
third parties. This is due to both an increase 
in Contracted CFE
 119 (up by roughly 1.2 TWh, 
or 9%, from 2022) as well as improvements in 
overall Grid CFE.
 120
We’ve worked hard to continue advancing  
CFE in parallel with load growth across our 
data center portfolio. In 2023, 10 of our 44  
grid regions
 121  achieved at least 90% CFE  
(see Figure 20). 
Four grid regions—Great Britain, Brazil, France, 
and Switzerland—reached or surpassed 90% 
CFE for the first time, while one grid region—
IESO (Canada)—fell to slightly below 90%  
CFE due to accelerated load growth in that 
region. Google’s CFE percentage in the ERCOT 
grid region, which powers our Texas data 
center, nearly doubled from 41% in 2022 to 
79% in 2023. 
CFE beyond our operations
Beyond purchasing CFE for our own 
operations, we also make targeted 
investments in CFE development. 
From 2010 to 2023, we entered into 
agreements to invest more than $3.1 
billion in renewable energy projects 
with an expected combined generation 
capacity of approximately 4.5 GW.
 114 
TARGET
Run on 24/7 carbon-free energy on every grid where we 
operate by 2030
Year set: 2020; Target year: 2030
2023 PROGRESS 
64% global average carbon-
free energy across our data 
centers and offices
TREND 
We maintained our CFE percentage for 
Google’s global portfolio of data centers 
and offices at 64% from 2022 to 2023, 
despite growth in electricity demand 
over this period. While we had increases 
in both our contracted CFE as well as 
in the availability of CFE on many of the 
grids where we operate, progress was 
also impacted in part by project owners 
terminating some CFE projects prior to 
those projects becoming operational.
DETAILS 
The load-weighted average of carbon-
free energy percentages
 122  across 
Google’s global portfolio of data centers 
and offices (referred to as “Google CFE”). 
This metric is inclusive of third-party 
data centers, and it represents the clean 
energy purchased to meet our electricity 
needs, every hour of every day, within 
every grid where we operate.
Total electricity consumption across 
our data centers and offices
Legend
Global average CFE percentage
20232022
5
0
25
20
15
10
64% CFE
64% CFE
Terawatt-hours


29%
43%
31%
29%
28%
30%
35%
40%
33%
87%
95% 87%
Canada
(Hydro-Québec)
100%
90%
94%
92%
98%
90%
92%
92%
84%
82%
80%
55%
26%
48%
79%
76%
65%
42%
29%
5%
16%
14%
13%
18%
16%
0%
0%
4%
63%
52% 52%
% hourly match with 
carbon-free energy
90%-100% 
80%-89% 
70%-79% 
60%-69% 
50%-59% 
40%-49% 
30%-39%
20%-29%
10%-19%
0%-9%
In 2023, Google maintained 64% CFE 
globally on an hourly basis across our 
offices and data centers, and 10 of our 44 
grid regions achieved at least 90% CFE.
U.S.
(SPP)
U.S.
(NVE)
Australia
(NSW)
Hong Kong
Netherlands
Great Britain
Spain
Chile
U.S. 
(MISO)
U.S. (P JM)
Canada 
(IESO)
Belgium
Switzerland
Brazil
Finland
Italy
France
Denmark
Germany
Japan  
(KEPCO)
South Korea
India
(Northern)
Australia
(Victoria)
Ireland
Qatar
Saudi Arabia
Taiwan
India 
(Western) Indonesia
Japan 
 (TEPCO)
South Africa
Israel
Singapore
Poland
U.S. (DUKE)
U.S. (Santee Cooper)
U.S. (SOCO)
U.S.  
(TVA)U.S. 
 (ERCOT)
U.S.  
(SRP)
U.S.
(BPA)
U.S. (CAISO)
U.S.
(PACE)
 36 
FIGURE 20 Global data center carbon-free energy map
Google CFE percentage in every grid region in which we have data center operations, including third-party-operated facilities
91%

 37 
More broadly, we’re seeing great progress 
on CFE in some parts of the world: in central 
North America
 123  and Latin America, our 
average regional Google CFE 124  across our 
data centers are both above 90%. However, 
other regions remain challenging for CFE, 
such as the Asia-Pacific region and eastern 
North America,
 125  where our average regional 
Google CFE across our data centers are 12% 
and 47%, respectively.
As we continue to enhance our CFE reporting, 
we’re newly disclosing our Contracted CFE
 126  
and Consumed Grid CFE 127  percentages 
by grid region, helping to demonstrate the 
impact of our global CFE procurement. For 
example, in Finland in 2023, we achieved 
98% Google CFE, and over three-quarters 
of this percentage was matched with our 
Contracted CFE within the Finnish grid region. 
This is meaningful because, despite Finland’s 
Grid CFE being 92%, our Consumed Grid 
CFE was only 21%. For more details, see the 
Environmental data tables in the Appendix. 
While this represents our approach to date, 
this approach may evolve as we continue to 
enhance our methodology and data availability 
improves. For example, we don’t currently 
use residual grid mix
 128  when calculating grid 
contributions to Google CFE because hourly 
residual grid mix data does not yet exist. We’re 
supporting the development of time-based 
tracking methods, which are essential for 
making this calculation possible in the future.
Offices
For our offices—which represent a small 
portion of our global CFE percentage—we 
achieved a global average of approximately 
56% CFE in 2023, up from 54% in 2022.
 129  
CFE for commercial real estate faces different 
challenges, including variability in building 
characteristics, work patterns, and geographic 
locations with a broad range of electricity grid 
carbon intensities. Still, we continue to work 
toward advancing CFE across our offices: In 
late 2022, we signed a contract to add clean 
energy generation capacity to the grid that 
powers Google’s offices in New York City—
our first office-only deal outside of the San 
Francisco Bay Area.
Innovative purchasing models
We’ve pioneered innovative contracting 
models and industry partnerships, 
accelerating the adoption of corporate  
clean energy practices and improving  
access to more buyers. In 2023, we  
advanced the following:
• New, scalable procurement approaches:
We p
iloted a new approach to clean energy
requests for proposals (RFPs) that can
reduce the time to negotiate and execute a
PPA, enabling easy, transparent, reliable, and
efficient contracting in today’s market.
• Contracting principles:  We partnered
with the Eurelectric 24/7 CFE Hub on a set
of contracting principles that clean energy
buyers and sellers can use to move toward
greater hourly energy matching.
• CFE transition tariffs: We worked with the
Regulatory Assistance Project to define the
optimal design of 24/7 CFE transition tariffs
an
d contracts, which can make 24/7 CFE
more accessible for electricity users of
al
l sizes.
Accelerating new and  
improved technologies
We’re using Google’s engineering expertise 
and purchasing power to accelerate the 
commercialization of a wide range of CFE 
technologies, working to demonstrate and 
scale their climate impact:
• Optimizing generation from existing
CFE technologies: In addition to using
innovative dragonscale solar rooftops, we’ve
installed facade solar panel systems (which
are mounted vertically on building walls) at
our Moffett Park Thermal Plant and at our
Humboldt office campus. These systems are
designed to generate power during times of
the day when traditional rooftop solar might
be less productive. And, at wind farms in
the United States, we’re deploying machine
learning solutions to optimize wind power
forecasting and project economics.
• Managing energy demand across our
global operations: We developed a
“carbon-intelligent computing platform”
that optimizes the timing and location of
computing tasks based on local grid carbon
intensity. This allows us to shift some of
our computing tasks to different times and
relocate tasks geographically  across data
centers so that we can do more computing in
regions where and when the grid is cleaner.
We’re also working on demand response at
our data centers.
• Accelerating next-generation energy
sources: In 2021, we signed the first
corporate agreement to develop a next-
generation geothermal power project in
Nevada, which became operational  in 2023.
• Improving clean energy data, tracking,
and trading: Google is driving the
development of advanced methods for
tracking and validating clean energy,
including time-based energy attribute
ce
rtificates (T-EACs). We’re also working
to improve the quality, consistency, and
granularity of grid electricity data through
collaborations with organizations including
EnergyTag, Electricity Maps, Flexidao,
and Linux Foundation Energy. And we’ve
partnered with LevelTen Energy and others
to launch the Granular Certificate Trading
All
iance, which aims to incentivize new clean
energy availability, reduce energy costs,
enable quick transactions, and help more
buyers and sellers achieve their clean
ene
rgy goals.
CFE procurement headwinds
In 2023, our efforts to increase CFE procurement faced a number of headwinds, including 
interconnection delays (such as in the PJM grid region), higher development costs and 
project demand, supply chain issues, U.S. regulatory tariffs for solar modules, natural 
variability in generation, and continued load growth in certain regions with CFE market 
constraints (such as in the United States and the Asia-Pacific region). 
Notably in 2023, the termination of some CFE projects by their owners prior to those projects 
becoming operational also impacted our data center CFE progress. We estimate that 
without these project terminations, our 2023 data center CFE percentage would have been 
approximately 2% higher, reaching 66% instead of 64%.
 130 Google isn’t alone in facing these 
challenges, and addressing these systemic challenges will be essential for rapid global grid 
decarbonization. Without policy changes, technology innovations, and collaborations to 
increase CFE access in regions like Asia Pacific, we expect our CFE progress—and broader 
grid decarbonization—to lag behind regions where these obstacles are less prevalent.
Google and clean-energy startup Fervo signed 
the world’s first corporate agreement to develop 
a next-generation geothermal power project.

 38 
Scope 3 emissions
In 2023, our total Scope 3 emissions were 
approximately 10.8 million tCO2e, representing 
75% of our total carbon footprint. Our Scope 
3 emissions are indirect emissions from 
sources in our value chain. The majority of 
these emissions are generated from the 
production of goods and services purchased 
for our operations, including the upstream 
manufacturing and assembly of servers and 
networking equipment used in our technical 
infrastructure. For details on how we calculate 
Scope 3 emissions, see the Scope 3 GHG 
emissions section in the Appendix. Some of 
our key Scope 3 emissions reduction levers 
include supplier engagement, minimizing 
embodied carbon, and sustainable travel. 
Compared to 2022, our total Scope 3 
emissions increased by 8% due to increases in 
emissions generated from goods and services 
purchased for our operations, upstream 
emissions from purchased electricity, and 
emissions related to data center construction. 
We expect our Scope 3 emissions will 
continue to rise in the near term, in part due to 
increased capital expenditures and expected 
increases in our technical infrastructure 
investment to support long-term business 
growth and initiatives, particularly those 
related to AI.
According to the GHG Protocol, emissions 
from the upstream manufacturing and 
assembly of servers and networking 
equipment used in our technical 
infrastructure, and emissions from materials 
used in the construction of data centers 
should be accounted for in the year the assets 
are purchased and not over the life of the 
assets, as is the case for financial accounting.
Addressing our Scope 3 supply chain 
emissions is particularly challenging due to 
the geographic diversity of our suppliers, 
which span many countries and grid regions. 
In many regions where our suppliers operate, 
they face many of the same challenges we 
do: insufficient CFE capacity and limited 
or nonexistent credible clean energy 
procurement mechanisms. In particular, 
the Asia-Pacific region, which is a critical 
region for our suppliers, is one of the most 
challenging regions for contracting and 
investing in carbon-free energy projects.
 131 
The effectiveness of our supplier engagement 
strategy and the quality of supplier-specific 
data we collect can also be impacted by the 
varying maturity of supplier climate programs 
and the supplier tier we’re working with (i.e., 
whether they’re a direct supplier or further 
down our supply chain).
Supplier engagement
We partner with many suppliers—from 
manufacturing to indirect services suppliers. 
All suppliers are required to sign our Supplier  
Code of Conduct, which states that suppliers 
should seek to minimize energy consumption 
and GHG emissions. We evaluate supplier 
performance in reporting, managing, and 
reducing their emissions, and incorporate 
these factors into our supplier scorecards and 
key procurement tools.
Reporting environmental data
Primary activity data is essential for more 
accurately calculating our supply chain 
carbon footprint and developing life cycle 
assessments. We expect all of our suppliers  
to set public GHG reduction targets and 
report their environmental data, which 
helps us guide our priorities for our supplier 
sustainability program. 
We engage some of our suppliers to directly 
collect data, and also encourage some 
suppliers to respond to CDP’s Climate Change 
survey. In 2023, we invited 312 suppliers to 
participate, a 40% increase compared to 2022. 
At least 90% of our hardware suppliers, by 
spend, provided data. Of the suppliers that 
we invited to respond to the CDP Climate 
Change survey in 2023, 60% reported 
having structured GHG emissions reduction 
targets,
 132  and 74% of those targets were 
science-based.
To support this, we engage our suppliers to 
improve their environmental data collection 
and accounting, including for their Scope 1, 
2, and 3 emissions. For example, we provide 
training on reporting to CDP as well as 
on setting GHG reduction and renewable 
electricity targets. In 2023, we hosted summits 
for both our technical infrastructure and 
consumer hardware device suppliers, where 
we discussed Google’s net-zero ambitions, 
among other topics.
Developing roadmaps to reduce 
emissions
In 2023, we worked closely with our largest 
hardware manufacturing suppliers, by spend, 
to obtain decarbonization roadmaps, some 
of which include GHG emissions reduction 
targets, and we implemented a Google 
Renewable Energy Addendum asking these 
suppliers to commit to achieving 100% 
renewable energy match by 2029.
 133
Focusing on emissions hotspots in our value 
chain
We’re also working directly with suppliers of 
hotspot commodities—or commodities with 
disproportionately high emissions—to  
identify and collaborate on carbon reduction 
initiatives that support our own emissions 
reduction target. 
The semiconductor industry is a prime 
example of an emissions hotspot due to the 
electricity and associated emissions from 
the manufacturing and powering of chips 
in electronics devices. We actively engage 
in consortia and industry organizations to 
drive systemic change and support scalable 
research and development within the 
semiconductor industry (see Figure 21). 
Through these organizations and our direct 
supplier engagement, we’re collecting  
primary manufacturing data that allows us to 
more accurately model our carbon footprint  
FIGURE 21 Google’s engagement with the semiconductor industry
Catalyze
In 2023, Google became a 
founding sponsor of Catalyze, 
a decarbonization program that 
aims to accelerate access to 
renewable energy across the global 
semiconductor value chain by 
combining energy purchasing power 
and enabling supplier participation in 
renewable energy projects.
Imec’s Sustainable 
Semiconductor Technologies 
and Systems
Google is a founding member of 
Imec’s Sustainable Semiconductor  
Technologies and Systems program, 
which seeks to drive innovation needed 
to decarbonize the semiconductor 
industry at scale using transparent data, 
methods, and early stage trial testing.
SEMI’s Semiconductor 
Climate Consortium
Google is an active member of SEMI’s 
Semiconductor Climate Consortium, 
an industry group focused on the 
semiconductor value chain.

 39 
in the hardware supply chain through life  
cycle assessments. 
Separately, as part of our efforts to enable 
5 GW of new carbon-free energy through 
investments in our key manufacturing regions, 
in 2023, we continued to invest toward this 
goal as part of a holistic strategy to increase 
the availability of CFE across our hardware 
supply chain.
Embodied carbon 
We work to minimize the carbon footprint 
of our data centers, offices, and consumer 
devices by considering the embodied carbon 
of the materials we use.
Buildings and construction
We pursue adaptive reuse of existing 
buildings to reduce the embodied carbon 
from data center and office construction. 
When constructing new office buildings, we 
work to incorporate low-carbon materials—
like mass timber—when appropriate. These 
materials help reduce our carbon footprint by 
storing or “sequestering” carbon within the 
building material itself. At our newly opened 
YouTube campus in San Bruno, California, 
we used low-carbon materials and mass 
timber for the buildings’ structures, which are 
estimated to have approximately 50% fewer 
embodied carbon emissions compared to 
traditional materials like concrete and steel, 
factoring in sequestration.
 134
In 2023, we focused on reducing the 
embodied carbon impact of growing AI 
demand at our data centers. We optimized 
space utilization by fitting more high-
density machines within existing and new 
buildings. Additionally, we’re running data-
driven programs to guide carbon-aware 
fleet decisions, such as reusing or upcycling 
technical infrastructure hardware. These 
programs integrate sustainability into the 
planning, deployment, and management of 
our data center machine fleet.
To further advance this work, we’re working 
with groups like Building Transparency to 
advance the development of tools to measure, 
model, and track the embodied carbon of 
building materials, and the iMasons Climate  
Accord, an industry coalition working to 
reduce GHG emissions across the technical 
infrastructure systems that support the  
digital economy.
Consumer devices
We’re using recycled materials in our 
consumer devices to lower our product 
manufacturing carbon footprint. For example, 
the aluminum in the enclosure of Pixel 5, 
launched in 2020, was made with 100% 
recycled content, and the aluminum in the 
enclosure of all Pixel phones since Pixel 6 
through Pixel 8 and 8 Pro have also been 
made with 100% recycled content, reducing 
the carbon footprint of the aluminum portion 
of the enclosures by over 35% compared to 
100% primary aluminum.
 135 For more details, 
see the Circular economy section.
Sustainable travel
Our transportation team supports sustainable 
commuting options to help Googlers get to 
work—like offering shuttles and encouraging 
carpooling, public transit, biking, and walking. 
We strive to provide electric vehicle 
charging stations for 10% of the total 
parking spaces at our San Francisco Bay Area 
headquarters, and we continue to work toward 
this design standard for new development 
projects. As of 2023, we’ve installed more than 
6,000 electric vehicle charging ports at our 
offices in the United States and Canada. 
Google offers commuter shuttles to many 
of its campuses to reduce individual vehicle 
commuting. For 2023, our shuttle buses in the 
San Francisco Bay Area produced savings of 
approximately 14,900 tCO
2e emissions—the 
equivalent of avoiding more than 61 million 
vehicle kilometers (38 million vehicle miles) 
or taking, on average, more than 3,500 fuel-
based cars off the road for a year.
 136
We’re working to reduce our impact from 
business travel by exploring ways to make air 
travel less carbon-intensive and supporting 
the production of sustainable aviation fuel  
(SAF) at scale. 
In 2023, Google joined the Avelia Sustainable  
Aviation Fuel program, which offers SAF 
credits to corporate customers. Additionally, 
in 2024, Google joined the United Airlines  
Ventures Sustainable Flight Fund, a first-of-its-
kind effort to provide catalytic investment to 
drive SAF production. 
An electric shuttle bus outside of Google’s Bay View campus.

 40 
Managing residual emissions
We’re first focused on 
decarbonizing our operations and 
value chain to reach our net-zero 
emissions goal, but as the IPCC 
stated, “the deployment of carbon 
dioxide removal to counterbalance 
hard-to-abate residual emissions is 
unavoidable if net-zero emissions 
are to be achieved.”
 137
Our approach to carbon credits
We aim to neutralize our residual emissions 
with high-quality carbon removal credits by 
2030, and to do so in a way that maximizes 
our positive impact on global decarbonization. 
This approach represents an evolution of our 
strategy: starting in 2023, we’re no longer 
maintaining operational carbon neutrality.
 138 
We’re instead focusing on accelerating an 
array of carbon solutions and partnerships 
that will help us work toward our net-zero goal, 
and are aiming to play an important role in 
advancing the development and deployment 
of nature-based and technology-based 
carbon removal solutions required to mitigate 
climate change. 
We prioritize two fundamental criteria when 
considering the climate impact of these 
efforts: scale and certainty. 
• For scale, we consider whether the solution 
can become big and affordable enough to 
make a difference for the planet. Ideally, 
some of the best solutions could scale up 
to at least half a gigaton per year of CO
2e 
impact and be available affordably in the 
foreseeable future. 
• For certainty, we strive to ensure that 
projects have the potential positive 
climate impact they claim to by rigorously 
assessing factors like additionality, leakage, 
permanence, and verifiability. 
Technology- and nature-based 
removals 
We’re supporting the advancement of both 
technology- and nature-based removals 
toward their highest possible level of scale and 
certainty, working to address key challenges 
that these solutions face today.
The main problem with technology-based 
solutions is that they currently lack scale—
they’re often too expensive and typically only 
operate as small pilots. 
To help address this problem, in 2022, we 
pledged $200 million to Frontier , an advance 
market commitment that’s accelerating the 
development of carbon removal technologies 
by guaranteeing future demand. We’re 
excited about completing our first carbon 
credit offtake deals through Frontier in 
2023—including deals with Charm Industrial, 
CarbonCapture, and Lithos Carbon— 
and about the broader contributions the 
Frontier collective has made for the field 
of carbon removals, such as publishing the 
buyer’s guide to enhanced weathering. 
We’re also a member of the First Movers 
Coalition and a champion for their Carbon 
Dioxide Removal sector.
Another pressing challenge is that 
corporations may currently be reluctant to 
participate in this nascent market. As with 
many emerging technologies, governments 
and companies have a critical and 
complementary role to play in demonstrating 
promising carbon removal approaches 
and bringing them to a commercial scale. 
In March 2024, Google pledged to match 
the U.S. Department of Energy’s Carbon  
Dioxide Removal Purchase program dollar for 
dollar: through our own initiatives, we plan 
to contract for at least $35 million of carbon 
removal credits over the next 12 months 
following the announcement. We look forward 
to working with our partners to identify and 
scale the most promising technology- and 
nature-based carbon removal solutions and 
hope that other companies will join us.
In addition to these partnerships, in 2023, 
Google.org provided a $1 million grant to 
the Integrity Council on Voluntary Carbon 
Markets (ICVCM) to help them orient the 
market toward various high-integrity solutions 
with adequate certainty to merit support. 
This grant brings Google.org’s cumulative 
contributions to strengthening carbon 
markets to more than $7 million as of the end 
of 2023—supporting organizations including 
The Gold Standard, Rocky Mountain Institute, 
the Voluntary Carbon Market Initiative, and 
Climate Action Data Trust. 
Beyond our purchases and partnerships, 
Google is uniquely positioned to help drive 
forward advancements in research and 
technology in this area. For example, we 
introduced our Google Carbon Removal 
Research Awards in 2023, which provided 
more than $3 million in funding to universities 
and academic research institutions for 
scientific studies in areas of carbon 
removals that would benefit from additional 
investigation, ranging from studying the 
effects of ocean alkalinity enhancement 
on coastal ecosystems and the potential of 
enhanced weathering projects in forests. 
Carbon removal procurement
As of the end of 2023, we signed three carbon 
credit offtake deals representing a total 
purchase of approximately 62,500 tCO
2e of 
removal credits, which are contracted for 
delivery by 2030 (see Figure 22).
We recognize that this is just the beginning, 
and we look forward to accelerating our 
carbon removal efforts in the years to come. 
We’ll continue evolving our approach to 
counterbalancing our residual emissions. 
FIGURE 22 Contracted carbon removals portfolio
Company Charm Industrial Lithos Carbon CarbonCapture
Project type Biomass carbon removal 
and storage (BiCRS)
Enhanced rock weathering 
(ERW)
Direct air capture (DAC)
Credit type Removal Removal Removal
Project location United States United States United States
Estimated contracted credits 22,600 tCO
2e 31,500 tCO2e 8,400 tCO2e
Year deal was signed 2023 2023 2023
Expected timeframe for 
delivery
2024–2030 2024–2028 2025–2028
Project details Charm Industrial collects waste 
biomass that’s left over from 
agricultural harvests or forest 
fire management, and heats 
it to a very high temperature 
in an oxygen-deprived 
environment. The resulting bio-
oil is then injected into EPA-
regulated wells, where it sinks 
and solidifies permanently.
Lithos Carbon accelerates 
the natural ability of rocks 
to absorb carbon dioxide by 
spreading superfine crushed 
basalt on farmlands and 
empirically measuring the 
resulting carbon removal.
CarbonCapture’s technology 
involves DAC machines that 
use solid sorbents to soak 
up atmospheric carbon 
dioxide and then release it via 
heating. The carbon dioxide 
stream is captured and can 
be paired with a permanent 
storage solution. 
Market commitment Frontier Frontier Frontier
 Note: At the time of publication, the following information wasn’t available: registry, project identification 
number, project name, and protocol used to estimate removal benefits. We don’t obtain an independent  
third-party verification of company data and claims related to our contracted carbon removals.

 41 
SPOTLIGHT
Some of our partnerships are helping bring clean energy and its benefits to historically underserved communities through grid-connected solar and home energy upgrades.
Supporting environmental justice, climate justice, and a just transition
We’re using our expertise and advocacy to accelerate the transition to a low-carbon economy while also prioritizing equity and support for 
vulnerable communities.
Clean energy procurement: We’re exploring how our  
clean energy procurement can support historically 
underserved communities that haven’t typically benefited 
from the clean energy transition. Two unique projects have 
emerged from our efforts to lower barriers for an equitable 
clean energy transition:
• Through a first-of-its-kind partnership with EDP Renewables 
North America, we’re creating a 500 MW community-based 
solar portfolio, adding clean energy to the regional U.S. PJM 
power grid where we operate. A portion of the portfolio’s 
revenues will be redirected as utility bill credits  
to households facing a high energy burden. 
• Through a partnership with Sol Systems , we’re providing 
funding to three rural electric cooperatives and one 
regional organization in North Carolina and South Carolina 
to undertake critical home pre-weatherization and safety 
upgrades for low- and moderate-income households.  
The partnership will deliver new solar energy and battery 
storage resources, bringing clean energy to one of the  
most challenging grids to decarbonize. 
In 2023, Google was recognized for this work with a 
DEI Impact Award from Smart Energy Decisions and a 
Changemaker Award from RE100. We’ll continue to build 
on these programs to extend the benefits of our energy 
investments to underserved communities.
Climate adaptation: During Climate Week NYC in 2023, 
Google Cloud and Google.org ran a design sprint to 
explore how geospatial technologies can help vulnerable 
communities understand and adapt to the impact of  
climate change. For more ways we’re supporting climate 
adaptation efforts, see Adaptation and resilience in the  
Our products section. 
Funding solutions: In 2022, Google.org launched the 
Environmental Justice Data Fund (EJDF), a collection of 
grants that aim to help frontline communities that have been 
historically underserved and disproportionately impacted 
by climate change and environmental injustice. The EJDF 
supports efforts focused on air quality, water quality, and 
environmental hazards. In 2023,   Go ogle.org expanded its 
funding for the EJDF. Google.org also supported the Asian 
Venture Philanthropy Network’s APAC Sustainability Seed 
Fund, which provides grant funding to local organizations 
focused on sustainability solutions for vulnerable and 
underserved communities in the Asia-Pacific region.  
For more details, see the Google.org grantees  section  
in the Appendix.
Green jobs skilling and alternative livelihoods:  In 2022, 
we partnered with ASU to offer an online training program  
in sustainability—complementing Google Career 
Certificates in Project Management—teaching skills needed 
for entry-level sustainability jobs. We’ve also supported 
initiatives that help communities pursue alternative 
livelihoods as economies transition away from extractive 
industries. We sponsored the Congo Power program, 
which launched community power projects for people in 
the Democratic Republic of the Congo and in conservation 
areas and national parks that are of critical importance to 
the Congolese and the planet. For more details, see our 
2023 Supplier Responsibility Report .
RESOURCES
• 24/7 Carbon-Free Energy:  
Methodologies and Metrics
• Accelerating Climate Action  
at Google and Beyond:  
A Progress Update
• The CFE Manager: 
A New Model for Driving 
Decarbonization Impact
• Corporate Role in Accelerating 
Advanced Clean Electricity 
Technologies
• How Do Offices Run on 24/7 
Clean Energy
• A Policy Roadmap for 24/7 
Carbon-Free Energy
• Timely Progress Toward Around-
the-Clock Carbon-Free Energy

 42 
Water stewardship
We aim to replenish more water than we consume and help improve water quality and ecosystem health in the communities where we operate
Our approach
Advancing responsible  
water use
 Data centers
 Offices
 Supply chain
Benefiting watersheds  
and communities
Supporting water security  
with technology

 43 
Our approach to water stewardship
Our water stewardship strategy is 
centered on enhancing responsible 
water resource management 
across our data centers and offices, 
sharing tools and technology that 
can help address water challenges, 
and improving watershed health 
and ecosystems in water-stressed 
communities (see Figure 23). 
In 2021, we announced  our goal to replenish 
120% of the freshwater  139 volume we consume, 
on average, across our offices and data 
centers by 2030, and help restore and improve 
the quality of water and health of ecosystems 
in the communities where we operate. 
To achieve our water replenishment target, 
we’re channeling our ongoing investments into 
projects located within the watersheds where 
we operate. We work with external partners 
to implement these projects, delivering 
volumetric water benefits and improving 
other locally relevant aspects of watershed 
health such as water quality, community water 
access, and biodiversity. 
FIGURE 23 How we support our commitment to water stewardship
Advance responsible water use at Google
Enhance our stewardship of water resources across  
Google offices and data centers
Benefit watersheds and communities
Collaborate to replenish our freshwater consumption and 
improve watershed health while supporting ecosystems  
and water-stressed communities
Support water security with technology
Share technology and tools that enable everyone to predict, 
prevent, and recover from water stress
• Water stewardship projects: 
We’ve supported 74 water 
stewardship projects spanning  
46 watersheds. 
• Water replenishment: Our water 
stewardship projects replenished 
an estimated 1 billion gallons of 
water
 140 (approximately 3.9 billion 
liters or 3.9 million cubic meters), 
representing 18% of our 2023 
freshwater consumption for our 
data centers and offices.
• Freshwater withdrawal by 
water scarcity: 69% of our 
freshwater withdrawals came 
from watersheds with low 
water scarcity, 16% came from 
watersheds with medium  
water scarcity, and 15% came 
from watersheds with high  
water scarcity.
 141 
• Water risk framework: In 
2023, we shared our water risk 
framework, which describes 
our data-driven approach to 
responsible water use in our 
Google-owned data centers.
2023 highlights
• Energy efficiency vs. local water 
use: Utilizing water cooling in data 
centers can play an important 
role in reducing energy use 
and energy-related emissions, 
but can also impact local water 
resources—particularly in regions 
where water resources are 
stressed. It’s critical to evaluate 
local watershed health and water 
risks, and to find innovative 
solutions that minimize both 
energy and water use.
• Availability of water 
stewardship projects: Water 
stewardship projects that meet 
robust criteria aren’t abundant 
in many watersheds around the 
world, so organizations need 
to work to identify and develop 
opportunities across geographies 
for investment or partnership.
• Navigating the local context 
of stewardship projects: 
There are often unique water 
challenges that must be assessed 
and navigated across each 
watershed. Bespoke challenges 
require tailored solutions and 
partnerships in order to improve 
watershed health in a locally 
relevant way.
Global challenges

 44 
Advancing responsible water use
We prioritize responsible water use 
in our data centers and our office 
operations around the world. 
We’re accelerating water reuse practices 
across our offices and data centers, and 
tailoring site-specific solutions based on 
facility types, locations, and local water 
contexts. We also use non-potable sources 
and freshwater alternatives whenever feasible.
In 2023, the total water consumption at our 
data centers and offices was 6.4 billion gallons 
(approximately 24 billion liters or 24 million 
cubic meters)—the equivalent of what it 
takes to irrigate 43 golf courses annually, on 
average, in the southwestern United States.
 142  
This represents a 14% increase from 2022, 
primarily due to water cooling needs at our 
data centers, which experienced increased 
electricity consumption year-over-year.
In 2023, 69% of our freshwater withdrawals 
came from watersheds with low water 
scarcity, 16% came from watersheds with 
medium water scarcity, and 15% came from 
watersheds with high water scarcity.
 143 
Through our water replenishment program,  
we focus on higher volumetric water  
benefits in water-scarce regions to ensure 
we’re positively impacting the areas that  
need it most.
Data centers
Water plays an important role in our data 
centers—cooling our servers, regulating 
indoor temperatures, and keeping our 
products up and running. In fact, water 
cooling has been shown to help reduce energy 
consumption and related carbon emissions 
when compared to air-based cooling. While 
it will take more time for electricity grids 
to decarbonize, we’ll continue using water 
cooling to improve our energy efficiency in 
certain geographies. Recognizing that this 
tradeoff will increase our data center water 
footprint, we’re prioritizing responsible water 
use and water replenishment at new sites from 
the start. 
Water risk framework
In 2023, we shared our water risk framework , 
which describes our data-driven approach to 
responsible water use in our Google-owned 
data centers. 
Building on our climate-conscious approach  
to data center cooling, this framework 
provides an actionable and repeatable 
process for evaluating local watershed 
health and water risks across our portfolio, 
focusing on water scarcity and the risk of 
a freshwater source being depleted. The 
evaluation results help us determine when we 
should consider using air cooling technologies 
instead of water, and when we should consider 
alternative water sources—such as reclaimed 
wastewater, industrial water, or seawater.
We apply this framework to every new 
data center site (including new sites before 
acquisition and future developments on 
existing campuses) and aim to repeat these 
assessments across our existing Google-
owned data center portfolio every three to 
five years to evaluate water risks that may 
require mitigation. 
These assessments are in addition to an annual 
enterprise-wide water risk assessment of all 
of Google’s data centers and offices, which 
provides us with a more holistic view of water 
challenges and trends—see more details in the 
Risk management section in the Appendix.
This framework is already informing our 
cooling technology selection. For example, 
our new data center campuses under 
development in Mesa, Arizona, and Canelones, 
Uruguay, will use air-cooling technology 
because the source watersheds didn’t meet 
our responsible use threshold for water 
cooling. And we already employ air-cooling 
technology at our data centers in Storey 
County, Nevada, and Dublin, Ireland.
Alternative water sources
In 2023, 22% of our total data center water 
withdrawal (excluding seawater) was 
reclaimed wastewater and other non-potable 
water, and roughly one-third of our data 
center campuses used air cooling or non-
potable water sources. 
We use reclaimed water at our data  
centers in Singapore and in Douglas 
County, Georgia, where the wastewater 
would otherwise be discharged in the 
Chattahoochee River. Our data centers in St. 
Ghislain, Belgium, Changhua County, Taiwan, 
and Eemshaven, Netherlands, use industrial 
water. In Hamina, Finland, we use seawater to 
cool our data center, and then return it to the 
sea at close to its original temperature. 
Water efficiency in Singapore 
In 2024, Google received a Water Efficiency Award from PUB,  
Singapore’s National Water Agency, which recognizes the top  
water efficiency performers in their respective sectors. 
Steam rises above the cooling towers at one of our existing data centers in The Dalles, Oregon
SPOTLIGHT
Innovative water system at The Dalles
In 2006, Google opened our first data center in The Dalles, Oregon.
We’re now working on a new campus 
and its supporting water and sewer 
infrastructure. A vital component is an 
innovative Aquifer Storage and Recovery 
(ASR) system, initiated in 2023, which 
will pump excess surface water into an 
existing aquifer for later use during drier 
months—functioning as an underground 
“savings account.” The surplus water 
available during the rainy season, which 
would otherwise be unusable as runoff, 
will help meet the City of The Dalles’ 
higher water demand in the summer and 
offset its reliance on local streams. The 
ASR system is also expected to improve 
local water quality by storing treated 
surface water for the City and reducing 
its untreated groundwater usage.

 45 
Offices
In 2023, Google had offices in nearly 60 
countries around the world. To manage 
our global environmental footprint, we’re 
developing responsible water use practices 
that can be applied in every region where we 
operate and for the many ways we use water 
in our offices, including for preparing food, 
cleaning and sanitation, irrigating campus 
landscapes, and keeping our workspaces cool. 
Sustainability design standards
One of the main ways we conserve water in 
Google offices is by adopting sustainability 
design standards aligned with leading  
third-party certifications, including the  
Living Building Challenge  (LBC). 
Our building design requirements for new 
construction include the incorporation of 
water-efficient fixtures, such as faucets, 
toilets, and irrigation systems. For existing 
buildings, our design standards also include 
replacing old fixtures with highly efficient ones 
in any space we move into and installing water 
meters with automatic leak detection. 
Water infrastructure innovation
Beyond these standards, we drive water 
stewardship in our offices. 
A flagship example of this work is our Bay View 
offi
ce in Mountain View, California, which has a 
treatment system that’s designed to capture 
and reuse water on-site via stormwater 
retention ponds and constructed wetlands.  
A central plant treats stormwater gathered 
from retention ponds and wastewater 
collected from buildings, producing recycled 
water that can be used for cooling towers and 
irrigation. 
As of 2023, Bay View is still on track to be the 
largest development project in the world to 
achieve Water Petal certification from the LBC. 
Bay View’s adjacency to the San Francisco Bay 
makes water an important focus and we hope 
that others can 
learn from these innovative 
solutions.
Another example is our all-electric Moffett 
Park Thermal Plant in Sunnyvale, California, 
which opened in 2023. By centralizing cooling 
towers and using heat recovery, the plant is 
expected to save up to 2 million gallons of 
water per year, roughly 30%, compared with a 
building-by-building approach to heating and 
cooling, per our predictive models.
We continue to work toward responsible water 
use in the water-stressed regions where we 
have offices, like the San Francisco Bay Area. 
Our Gradient Canopy building  in Mountain 
View, California, uses municipal and onsite-
generated recycled water for toilets, irrigation, 
and cooling, and our new YouTube offices 
in San Bruno are expected to capture up to 
roughly 1.3 million gallons of stormwater per 
year, which will be treated to meet on-site, 
non-potable water demands. The stormwater 
capture system is expected to help reduce our 
municipal water use by approximately 18%.
 144
Supply chain
Water is also used in our supply chain in the 
manufacturing of our consumer hardware 
devices and technical infrastructure hardware. 
Addressing water challenges throughout our 
supply chain requires high-quality water data. 
That’s why we ask suppliers to disclose water-
related data via the CDP supply chain platform. 
This reporting includes data on water 
withdrawal from all sources, the portion of 
water permanently lost in withdrawal, and 
water effluents discharged, among other 
metrics. In 2023, we received an 87% response 
rate (108 out of 124) from suppliers that we 
invited to participate in the Water Security 
survey via the CDP Supply Chain program. 
Our Bay View campus, as seen from across its stormwater retention pond. (Photo: Iwan Baan)

 46 
Benefiting watersheds and communities
Improving watershed and 
ecosystem health is a critical part 
of our water stewardship strategy, 
and it’s integrated with our water 
replenishment goal. 
We designed our strategy to prioritize a range 
of watershed health issues, enabling us to 
invest in a diverse set of impactful projects 
and partnerships that are appropriate for each 
local context. 
In addition to pursuing replenishment projects 
with volumetric benefits to water systems, we 
also identify watershed health projects with 
the potential to provide co-benefits for nature, 
biodiversity, and communities.
As of the end of 2023, we’ve supported  
74 water stewardship projects spanning 46 
watersheds (see Figure 24). These projects 
focus on land conservation and restoration, 
water supply reliability, ecosystem restoration, 
water quality improvements, and increasing 
water, sanitation, and hygiene (WASH) access.
In 2023, these projects replenished an 
estimated 1 billion gallons of water
 145 
(approximately 3.9 billion liters or 3.9 million 
cubic meters). This figure represents 18% of 
our 2023 freshwater consumption for our data 
centers and offices. Once fully implemented, 
we estimate that these 74 projects will have 
the capacity to replenish more than 2.8 billion 
gallons of water annually.
 146 
Our process for working toward our water 
replenishment target includes:
• Conducting water risk assessments to 
identify priority watersheds for water 
stewardship projects.
• Assessing local water challenges through 
data analysis and local stakeholder 
engagement to guide us toward context-
specific solutions. 
• Engaging project partners who are 
working on the ground to identify existing 
replenishment opportunities that address 
shared water challenges. 
• Co-developing water replenishment 
opportunities with local partners if none are 
readily available. 
Once we decide to move forward with a  
water stewardship project, implementation 
can take up to a few years to complete, 
depending on the activities. Projects often 
involve extensive planning, community 
engagement, and permitting, in addition to the 
actual restoration or construction activities. 
After projects are operational, we use the 
Volumetric Water Benefit Accounting  
(VWBA) methodology to determine the 
estimated eligible replenishment benefits 
Google can claim. For more details, see the  
Water replenishment section in the Appendix.
In 2023, we co-funded the development 
of VWBA 2.0, the next iteration of water 
replenishment quantification methodologies. 
TARGET
Replenish 120% of the freshwater volume we consume, on average,  
across our offices and data centers by 2030
Year set: 2021; Target year: 2030
2023 PROGRESS  
1 billion gallons of water 
replenished, or 18% of our 
2023 freshwater consumption 
TREND 
We estimate that our water stewardship 
projects replenished approximately 1 billion 
gallons of water
 147 in 2023 alone, increasing our 
freshwater replenishment from 6% in 2022 to 
18% in 2023. This is the result of adding 36 new 
water stewardship projects to our replenishment 
portfolio—nearly doubling the portfolio size from 
38 projects in 2022 to 74 projects in 2023.
DETAILS 
Water replenished annually as a percentage  
of the amount of freshwater we consume  
each year at our offices and data centers 
(i.e., excluding seawater and reclaimed 
wastewater).
 148 Replenishment benefits are 
counted from projects that are active within  
the watersheds that our operations rely on  
and that have confirmed volumetric benefits 
from the reporting year.
Capacity of all contracted water replenishment projects once fully implemented
Total freshwater consumption for offices and Google-owned and -operated data centers
Estimated water replenished
Legend
2,000
0
6,000
4,000
18%
Million gallons
6%
2022 2023


Asia Pacific
Europe, Middle East,  
and Africa
Latin America
North America
Project category Total
Land conservation and restoration 14
Water supply reliability 24
Water, sanitation, and hygiene (WASH) 8
Aquatic habitat restoration 18
Water quality 10
Total projects 74
 47 
FIGURE 24 Global water replenishment project map
This map shows all 74 water stewardship projects we’ve supported as of the end of 2023.

 48 
Multi-benefit floodplain restoration along the Tuolumne and San Joaquin rivers in California.
SPOTLIGHT
Water stewardship projects
Below are some examples of impactful projects and partnerships from the 36 new water stewardship 
projects we supported in 2023.
Arizona, United States: To further support 
water security in Mesa, Arizona, we 
contributed to the Salt River Project’s efforts 
to restore the local watershed and reduce 
wildfire risk. We partnered with the Colorado 
River Indian Tribes (CRIT) and N-Drip to fund 
conversion of flood irrigation to precision 
drip irrigation, and to support farmers to 
enable water-saving crop rotations. We 
also partnered with the Quechan Tribe on a 
farmland initiative whose water savings will 
bolster efforts to improve water security in 
the Colorado River Basin. 
Illinois, United States: In the Chicago  
River’s Wild Mile, we’re supporting the 
creation of a freshwater mussel habitat to 
improve water quality and provide other 
important ecological benefits. We’ll also 
support green infrastructure projects at  
two sites to improve stormwater 
management in Chicago. 
Texas, United States: We partnered with 
Texan by Nature on a watershed health 
initiative to improve the stewardship of 
an old-growth longleaf pine forest. This 
initiative employed several tactics, including 
removing invasive species, planting a diverse 
understory, and conducting prescribed 
burns. We provided critical funding to  
The Nature Conservancy and farmers in 
the Upper Colorado and Upper Trinity River 
Basins to implement Environmental Water 
Transfers that increased streamflow and 
developed regenerative agricultural practices 
on 1,000 acres, aiming to reduce runoff and 
improve water quality.
Chile: We expanded our partnership with 
Kilimo and are installing precision irrigation 
management systems that will use AI on 
approximately 1,980 acres (800 hectares) of 
farmland in Chile’s Maipo Basin to conserve 
water used for irrigated agriculture.
Spain: We partnered with Fundación 
Naturaleza y Hombre to create watering 
ponds and clear vegetation in the Sierra de 
Gata Biological Reserve. This effort will help 
improve forest health and reduce fire risk  
in the watershed surrounding our Madrid 
office campus.
Netherlands: We’re working with  
Acacia Water on two projects: increasing the 
efficiency and capacity of an ASR system 
on the island of Texel, and using smart 
technology to prevent saltwater intrusion 
by monitoring water salinity and efficiently 
routing freshwater. We’re also working 
with the Province of Groningen and other 
partners to develop water control structures 
to increase flood protections for salt marsh 
habitats and aquacultures near our data 
center—which will also improve local  
water quality. 
India: Building on our portfolio of 
stewardship projects in India, we partnered 
with CLEAN International on lake restoration 
projects in Pune and Bengaluru that, 
combined, will restore 18 acres of lake and 
plant approximately 1,000 waterfront trees. 
We also expanded our partnership with 
WaterAid by providing clean water access  
in Hyderabad. 
Japan: We’re supporting Ramsar Network 
Japan to create and improve wetland habitat 
in and around the Watarase Retarding Basin, 
which serves as critical habitat for the 
endangered Oriental Stork. 
Taiwan: We’re working with CLEAN 
International on installing rainwater 
harvesting systems and storage tanks at 
schools in Taipei City, New Taipei City, and 
Changhua County. The schools will use water 
from the rainwater harvesting systems for 
cleaning, landscape maintenance, sanitation, 
and cooking.
Supporting water security with 
technology
We’re using Google’s products  
and technology to help others  
study and respond to water  
security challenges.
 
Global searches for “water security” reached 
an all-time high in 2023, demonstrating a 
growing awareness of this critical issue. 149
We work to put environmental information 
about the world’s forests, fisheries, 
watersheds, and air into the hands of decision-
makers, in support of our aims to both address 
a key need for informed decision-making, 
and to support efforts to scale models 
and solutions that make water resource 
information visible and actionable. 
For example, we partnered to develop the 
Freshwater Ecosystems Explorer, a free, 
easy-to-use geospatial platform that provides 
national, sub-national, and basin-level data on 
freshwater ecosystems. And in collaboration 
with OpenET, as well as government and 
academic research groups, we supported the 
automation and scaling of evapotranspiration 
(ET) models to help improve water 
management.
At World Water Week 2023 , we highlighted the 
launch of Global Water Watch, a new tool  
featuring near-real-time reservoir storage data  
that Google.org supported through the 2020  
Google.org Impact Challenge on Climate . 
The Global Water Watch tool
RESOURCES
•  Google Arts & Culture 
Freshwater Education Page
• Passage of Water
• Responsible Water Use: 
Assessing Watershed Health 
in Data Center Communities
•  Working toward LBC Water  
Petal Certification

 49 
Circular economy
We aim to maximize the reuse of finite resources across our operations, products, and supply chains
Our approach
Building circular workplaces
 Circular design and construction
 Waste diversion
Reducing data center waste
Designing more sustainable 
consumer hardware devices
 Recycled materials
 Sustainable packaging
 Product longevity
 Working with suppliers

 50 
Our approach to the circular economy
We believe the world must 
accelerate the circular 
economy in order to achieve 
net-zero carbon emissions. 
We set out to become a circular 
Google by maximizing the reuse of 
finite resources across our operations, 
products, and supply chains—and 
enabling others to do the same. Global 
searches for “circular economy” 
reached an all-time high in 2023, 
underscoring the growing awareness 
and demand for a shift toward a more 
sustainable economic model.
 150
Our circularity principles focus on 
designing out waste and pollution 
from the start, keeping products and 
materials in use, and promoting healthy 
materials and safer chemistry (see 
Figure 25).
To this end, we’re pursuing innovative 
strategies—from adaptive reuse 
building projects to recycled materials 
in our consumer hardware devices. 
Our impact on the circular economy 
spans our business operations and 
value chain—including our data centers, 
offices, stores, products, and suppliers. 
FIGURE 25 How we’re working toward becoming a more 
circular Google
We keep products and materials in use 
We pursue strategies to extend the life of our products, 
offices, and data centers for as long as safely possible to 
maximize the use of materials that went into their creation
We promote healthy materials and 
safer chemistry
We design products, offices, and data centers with safer 
materials for people and for the environment, enabling  
them to be reused in the future
We design out waste and pollution 
We design for circularity from the start, making it easier for 
the materials used in the creation of our products, offices, 
and data centers to be reused in the future
We design out waste and pollution 
We design for circularity from the start, making it easier for 
the materials used in the creation of our products, offices, 
and data centers to be reused in the future
We keep products and materials in use 
We pursue strategies to extend the life of our products, 
offices, and data centers for as long as safely possible to 
maximize the use of materials that went into their creation
We promote healthy materials and 
safer chemistry
We design products, offices, and data centers with safer 
materials for people and for the environment, enabling  
them to be reused in the future
2023 highlights
• Waste diversion: We diverted 
78% of our global data centers 
and offices’ operational waste 
away from disposal.
• Food waste reduction: We 
reduced food waste per Googler 
by 38% compared to 2019,
 151 
building on an 18% reduction per 
Googler in 2022.
• Resold components: Since 2015, 
we’ve resold more than 44 million 
hardware components from our 
data centers into the secondary 
market for reuse by other 
organizations,
 152  including more 
than 7 million resold components 
in 2023 alone.
• Pixel software support: We 
announced our commitment to 
providing seven years of software 
support for Pixel 8, Pixel 8 Pro, and 
future Pixel phones.
 153 
Global challenges
• Infrastructure: Recovering and diverting 
resources from disposal requires robust 
collection and recovery infrastructure 
around the world, beyond what exists 
today. Many markets face challenges due 
to the lack of recycling and composting 
infrastructure and services at the local level.
• Markets: Enabling circularity requires 
supportive fiscal policy, financially healthy 
end-markets, and localized solutions. These 
mechanisms keep materials in use in the 
economy by making circularity make  
financial sense.
• Metrics and measurement: Achieving 
a circular economy will require better 
measurement, metrics, and data to enable 
more efficient use of resources. Higher 
quality data is needed to inform capital 
investments, infrastructure priorities, 
business plans, policies, and other 
interventions.
• Single-use plastics: Accelerating the switch 
from using single-use plastics to more 
durable and reusable solutions requires 
innovation in both materials and the systems 
that enable movement of goods through 
the economy. Additionally, transitioning 
away from plastic packaging is challenging 
because plastic-free alternatives are often 
not available for specific packaging needs. 

 51 
Building circular workplaces
When we design, build, and operate 
Google data centers, offices, and 
stores around the world, we strive 
to deliver on our commitment to 
accelerating the circular economy. 
Circular design and 
construction
When the right opportunity comes up, we 
pursue adaptive reuse projects, renovating 
existing buildings to serve a new purpose 
rather than demolishing them for new builds. 
These reuse projects tend to use fewer 
materials, produce less construction waste, 
and have lower embodied carbon than new 
construction projects. Adaptive reuse projects 
also help preserve community history, giving 
historic structures new life as Google offices 
and, in some cases, as community spaces too. 
For more than a decade, we’ve prioritized 
building materials that demonstrate 
safer chemistry to create healthy indoor 
environments. One way we do this is by 
leveraging third-party standards that 
encourage transparency in the building 
industry, like the Living Building Challenge  
(LBC). As of the end of 2023, Google’s 
Gradient Canopy building in Mountain View, 
California, was the largest new construction 
project to attain the LBC Materials Petal 
Certification. And as of the end of 2023, our 
237 Moffett Park Drive building in Sunnyvale, 
California, remained the world’s largest 
renovation typology project to have attained 
the LBC Materials Petal Certification.
We use the Rheaply platform, which helps 
locate and reuse office furniture and other 
materials to support real estate circularity. 
In 2023, Rheaply helped Google reuse 
more than 40,000 pieces of furniture and 
equipment internally, contributing to over 
317,000 kilograms (700,000 pounds) of waste 
diverted from disposal, including landfill and 
incineration. We also sponsored the launch 
of public Rheaply marketplaces in the San 
Francisco Bay Area, New York City, and 
Chicago to bring this solution to more users  
in those cities.
Waste diversion
We strive to divert solid waste from disposal 
(defined as diversion of waste from landfills 
or incinerators) and aim to minimize the 
amount of materials we use and maximize 
their lifespan within our ecosystem and the 
surrounding community. 
In 2023, the global waste diversion rate for 
our offices was 77%.
 154 We prioritize diverting 
high-quality materials to maximize the success 
of our waste recovery efforts. We assess 
the contamination rates of our recycling 
and composting streams, and remove 
contaminated waste from our calculations. 
This effort contrasts with the typical approach 
to calculating diversion rates, which makes the 
assumption that anything placed in recycling 
or compost bins has zero contamination. 
Our office circularity efforts extend beyond 
waste diversion when possible. In 2023, our 
main campus in Dublin, Ireland achieved  
TRUE Zero Waste Platinum certification,  
which recognizes the integration of  
circularity practices into building operations— 
including procurement, infrastructure, and 
employee engagement. For details on our 
TRUE precertifications, see the Certifications 
section in the Appendix.
Additionally, across our office portfolio in 
2023, we made efforts to refurbish and 
recover computing devices and other 
corporate electronics, diverting nearly 90%  
of material from disposal via reuse, donation, 
and recycling.
Our Hyperlink Bridge in Dublin, Ireland, connects three TRUE-certified buildings—  
Google Docks, Gordon House, and The Gasworks.
A view of Gradient Canopy’s interior canopy with clerestory windows.
SPOTLIGHT
Circular design and construction at Gradient Canopy
Our Gradient Canopy building in Mountain View, California is a flagship 
example of how we approach circular building design in a holistic way—
with an emphasis on reducing construction waste and incorporating 
healthy, reclaimed, and responsibly sourced materials. 
Here are a few examples from the 
launch of the building in 2023: 
• Construction waste: At Gradient 
Canopy, we diverted more than 90% 
of construction waste from disposal 
through sorting waste materials 
onsite, which helps recycle materials 
that might otherwise go to landfills. 
This amounted to nearly 23,000 metric 
tons (51,000 pounds) of diverted 
construction waste.
• Healthy materials: Materials installed 
at Gradient Canopy were reviewed 
with manufacturers to ensure 
they were free of LBC’s Red List 
ingredients, which represent “worst-
in-class” chemicals that negatively 
impact human and environmental 
health. We also encouraged 
manufacturers to incorporate 
Declare labels in their product 
lines, particularly in industries and 
product categories where material 
transparency may be less common. 
As an example, many of the wooden 
doors and frames used in the project 
obtained a Declare label, which they 
didn’t have at the start of this project.
• Reclaimed materials: Throughout 
Gradient Canopy, we installed over 
30 elements from salvaged sources—
including reclaimed wood, bike racks, 
lockers, carpets, and tiles that would 
have otherwise gone to landfill.

 52 
Food waste
We’re taking a holistic approach to address 
food waste, focused on the “three R’s”—
reduce, reuse, and recycle. Reducing food 
waste generated in our kitchens is a key lever, 
as it decreases the food waste that must be 
diverted from landfills. That’s why in 2022, 
we set a goal to cut food waste in half for 
each Googler by 2025, compared to a 2019 
base year. We’re seeing measurable progress 
toward this goal by using different intervention 
levers to drive operational change (such as 
just-in-time cooking) and spark behavior 
change (such as communications campaigns). 
In 2023, we reduced food waste per Googler 
by approximately 38% compared to 2019,
 155 
building on an 18% reduction in 2022. We also 
have an ambitious goal to send zero food 
waste to the landfill by 2025. In 2023, we 
diverted 82% of food waste from landfill.
To further reduce food waste, we’re 
strengthening our efforts in three key areas 
across our food program:
• Sourcing and procurement: We’re working 
with our suppliers, distributors, and vendors 
to prevent food waste before it happens.  
We buy from innovative businesses that 
make food products from upcycled and 
imperfect ingredients. 
• Kitchen and cafe operations: We’re 
reducing food waste across our back-of-
house operations through improved culinary 
practices and demand planning to ensure 
our food production levels are consistent 
with user dining patterns. 
• Excess food: We continue to install new 
waste containers and signage to help 
separate food waste effectively, and we’re 
working to ensure excess food is either 
donated or properly composted. We’re 
expanding partnerships with municipal 
and community organizations to develop 
composting infrastructure and, in markets 
with limited or emerging composting 
infrastructure, we’re exploring ways to 
process our food waste on-site.
Single-use plastics
Global search interest in “plastic pollution” 
reached an all-time high in 2023, underscoring 
the urgency of finding solutions to this 
environmental challenge.
 156 We’re working with 
vendors and suppliers to phase out products 
with single-use plastics. These changes involve 
rethinking how we handle, store, prepare, and 
serve food and beverages.
We’re piloting and scaling plastic-free 
processes and products in our kitchens and 
we’re partnering with distributors that are 
using more reusable and durable containers 
to transport goods. In April 2023, we launched 
our Single-Use Plastics Challenge , giving 
food companies that don’t use single-use 
plastics in their packaging the opportunity to 
test their products in Google’s U.S. campus 
cafes and kitchens. In December 2023, we 
announced the nine finalist companies , 
with solutions ranging from reusable snack 
bags to edible cutlery, refillable commercial 
cooking oil vessels, data-powered bulk food 
dispensers, and more. 
TARGET
Divert all food waste from landfill by 2025
Year set: 2022; Target year: 2025
2023 PROGRESS  
82% of food waste 
diverted from landfill 
TREND 
Our food waste diversion rate decreased 
from 85% in 2022 to 82% in 2023 due, in 
part, to limited composting infrastructure 
in certain regions—including Asia 
Pacific—which continues to impact our 
ability to divert food waste from our 
kitchen and cafe operations.
DETAILS
Annual food waste diverted from landfills and incinerators in kitchens and cafes at Google’s 
offices globally. We consider sending “zero food waste to landfill” as 99% diversion of food 
waste from landfills and incinerators via composting, anaerobic digestion, or other on-site 
processing—which goes further than industry standards for Zero Waste to Landfill.
Percentage of food waste diverted 
from landfill
Legend
0
25
50
75
100
85% 82%
2022 2023
Percentage
In our kitchen and cafe operations, we’re focused on ways to stop food waste before it starts.

 53 
Reducing data center waste
We design, build, and operate our 
data centers to maximize efficient 
use of resources and materials. 
This includes exploring adaptive 
reuse projects for some of our 
data centers (see Figure 26), and 
focusing on data center waste.
In 2016, we announced our aim to achieve  
Zero Waste to Landfill for our global data 
center operations. Working to address  
waste at our data centers will require 
collaboration, innovation, and high-quality 
data to accurately measure performance  
and identify opportunities. 
Updating our approach to zero waste 
In 2023, we refined our approach to data 
center waste accounting to better align 
with circular economy principles and more 
accurately track progress toward Zero Waste 
to Landfill. We integrated new data sources 
and assumptions to account for parts and 
materials that enter our reverse logistics 
recycling value chain—inclusive of e-waste, 
racking infrastructure, and packaging waste. 
We also refined our approach to diversion 
accounting for waste that’s thermally 
processed (i.e., incinerated) when it leaves  
our data centers—reclassifying it as  
disposed instead of diverted, even when 
energy is recovered.
In 2023, following our updated waste 
accounting methodology, we diverted 78% of 
operational waste from disposal across our 
global fleet of Google-owned and -operated 
data centers, and 29% (8 out of 28) of our 
Google-owned and -operated data center 
campuses met our Zero Waste to Landfill goal. 
As we further refine our waste governance, 
we’re working with our data center site teams, 
partners, and vendors to improve our waste 
data collection processes and systems. We’re 
committed to continuous improvement of our 
waste management practices, particularly 
at our data centers, with the ultimate goal of 
becoming a more circular Google.
For data center equipment, our approach 
to circularity aims to maintain servers for as 
long as possible by refurbishing, reusing, or 
reselling components (following a rigorous 
security process)—and recycling any 
components that can’t be reused. Since 2015, 
we’ve resold more than 44 million hardware 
components from our data centers into 
the secondary market for reuse by other 
organizations,
 157 including more than 7 million 
resold components in 2023 alone. As of 
the end of 2023, 29% of components used 
for server deployment, maintenance, and 
upgrades were refurbished inventory. 
FIGURE 26 Adaptive reuse examples for our data centers
The Dalles, Oregon  
In 2023, we started construction on a third campus in The Dalles 
on a former U.S. Superfund site that previously housed an 
aluminum smelter. The development will also leverage an  
existing drainage channel for stormwater management.
Hamina, Finland 
We converted a decommissioned paper mill in Hamina, Finland , 
into our second data center in Europe. In addition to the buildings, 
we also repurposed the existing electrical substation and a 
seawater cooling tunnel, which we use to cool the data center.
TARGET
Achieve Zero Waste to Landfill for our global data 
center operations
Year set: 2016; Target year: N/A
2023 PROGRESS  
29% of Google-owned and 
-operated data center campuses 
achieved Zero Waste to Landfill
TREND 
Due to changes in methodology that have 
only been applied to data center waste data 
for 2023, we’re not reporting year-over-year 
progress against this target this year. Had we 
not made these methodology changes, we 
estimate that our reported 2023 percentage 
of data centers to reach Zero Waste to Landfill 
would have been 43%, or a 5% increase 
compared to our reported 2022 percentage.
DETAILS 
Annual operational waste for all Google-
owned and -operated data center campuses 
globally. We consider “Zero Waste to Landfill” 
for our data center operations to mean that 
more than 90% of waste is diverted from 
landfill and incineration, in line with industry 
standards. As of 2023, our waste diversion 
methodology considers thermally processed 
waste (i.e., incineration), with or without 
energy recovery, as waste disposal.
Data center campuses that have 
achieved our Zero Waste to Landfill goal
Legend
Data center campuses yet to achieve 
our Zero Waste to Landfill goal
8 out of 28 
data center 
campuses
29%

 54 
Designing more sustainable consumer hardware devices
Since launching our first consumer 
hardware devices, 158 we’ve set 
out to integrate sustainability 
considerations into every aspect 
of our operations—from how we 
source our materials, engineer and 
package our products, run our 
supply chain operations, and design 
our retail stores. 
We aim to decrease our use of virgin materials 
through our procurement of recycled 
materials and extend the life of our products 
through software updates and expanded 
repair options (see Figure 27). 
We also support electronics standards and 
certifications, including UL 110, IEEE 1680.1,  
and the UL ECOLOGO Program,
 159 that 
establish robust sustainability criteria for 
electronic devices. For more information 
about our products, including their recycled 
material content and packaging, see our 
Product Environmental Reports .
Recycled materials
We’d set a goal to include recycled materials in 
100% of Google consumer hardware products 
launching in 2022 and every year after.
 160 We 
first achieved this goal in 2020 for our Nest, 
Pixel, and Chromecast devices, and have 
maintained it for these products launched 
each year since—through 2023.
 161
Additionally, Fitbit devices launched in 2023 
included recycled materials—the first year 
Fitbit devices were included in this goal.
 162
We also set a target to use recycled or 
renewable material in at least 50% of plastic 
used across our consumer hardware product 
portfolio by 2025, prioritizing recycled plastic 
where we can. 34% of the plastic Google 
used in products manufactured in 2023 
was recycled content.
 163 This represents 
a decrease in overall recycled content of 
plastics across our portfolio from 41% in 
2022,
 164 which was due to changes in our 
product mix—some product types use 
less plastic than others, which can reduce 
opportunities to use recycled content. At least 
20% of the material Google used in our new 
products launched and manufactured in 2023 
was recycled content.
 165 This effort includes 
recycled material used in our devices, such as 
aluminum, stainless steel, rare-earth magnets, 
glass, and plastic parts.
FIGURE 27 Our consumer hardware devices are built with sustainability in mind
Recycled materials
Made with recycled 
metals, glass, and 
plastics, and now 
recycled tin, as well
Packaging
Focused on using fiber-
based materials and 
making our packaging 
more easily recyclable
Product longevity
Designed to be repairable 
and used for as long as 
possible with feature  
drops, and OS and  
security updates
Low-carbon design
Using recycled aluminum 
in the enclosure of Pixel 
phones to reduce the carbon 
footprint, compared to using 
primary aluminum
E-waste
Offering programs to 
recycle and trade-in  
old devices to help  
reduce e-waste
TARGET
Use recycled or renewable material in at least 50% of 
plastic used across our consumer hardware product 
portfolio by 2025
Year set: 2020; Target year: 2025
2023 PROGRESS  
34% of the 
plastic Google 
used in products 
manufactured was 
recycled content
 166
TREND 
The percentage of plastic used 
in our manufactured consumer 
hardware products that was 
recycled content decreased 
from 41% in 2022
 167 to 34% in 
2023  168 due to changes in our 
product mix. Some product 
types use less plastic than 
others, which can reduce 
opportunities to use recycled 
content. This change in product 
mix contributed to the decrease 
in overall recycled-content 
plastics across our portfolio. 
We’re continuing to explore 
ways to use more recycled 
content across plastics in our 
product portfolio.
DETAILS 
Includes the minimum percentage of recycled or 
renewable plastic content calculated as a percentage 
of total plastic (by weight) in Google’s consumer 
hardware portfolio for products manufactured in a 
given year. The following may be excluded from the 
calculation of percentage: printed circuit boards, 
labels, cables, connectors, electronic components 
and modules, optical components, electrostatic 
discharge components, electromagnetic interference 
components, films, coatings, and adhesives. 
Renewable content consists of plastic made from 
bio-based material. This target doesn’t include third-
party products such as the Nest x Yale Lock.
Percentage of recycled or renewable material in plastic 
used in Google products manufactured each year
Legend
0
10
20
30
40
50
Percentage
2021 2022 2023

 55 
Sustainable packaging
Our goal is to eliminate plastic from our 
hardware product packaging by 2025. We’re 
working to achieve this target by designing 
Pixel, Nest, Chromecast, and Fitbit packaging 
to minimize the use of plastic. For new Google 
products launched and manufactured in 2023, 
our packaging was at least 99% plastic-free,
 169 
and packaging for Pixel 8 and Pixel 8 Pro uses 
100% plastic-free materials.
 170 By focusing 
on fiber-based materials, we’re also making 
our packaging more easily recyclable. We’ll 
continue to work with suppliers to create 
plastic-free packaging solutions that are 
protective and aesthetic.
When comparing the packaging of our first 
Pixel phone to Pixel 8 and Pixel 8 Pro, we’ve 
made significant progress—eliminating plastic 
from Pixel 8 and Pixel 8 Pro packaging, and 
reducing packaging weight and volume by 
at least 50%.
 171 Smaller and lighter Pixel 8 
Pro packaging means more devices can be 
transported in a single shipping container  
and therefore more natural resources can  
be conserved.
Product longevity
We want our devices to be used and valued for 
as long as possible, which we work to achieve 
by guiding consumers through the care, repair, 
reuse, and recycling of their products.
Enabling security updates and bug fixes 
helps promote product longevity. In 2023, 
we announced our commitment to providing 
seven years of software support for Pixel 8 
and Pixel 8 Pro, including Android operating 
system upgrades and security updates.
 174 And, 
for Google Nest products, we provide critical 
bug fixes and patches for at least five years 
after launch.
We’re working to empower everyone with 
more repair options to extend the useful 
lifespan of consumer hardware technology 
because we believe that consumers should 
have the “Right to Repair”—including access 
to the same documentation, parts, and tools 
that original equipment manufacturer (OEM) 
repair channels have. Pixel repair options are 
available in all countries where we sell Pixel 
phones. We also offer customer support, self-
repair options, and an online community help 
center. In tandem with our trade-in program, 
these efforts can extend the useful life of  
Pixel phones. 
In 2023 , we announced that all Chromebook 
platforms will get regular automatic updates 
for 10 years. ChromeOS Flex continues to 
offer an alternative for extending the useful 
life of aging devices by modernizing their 
operating systems, enhancing product 
longevity, and reducing the amount of 
potential devices that may end up as e-waste. 
For eligible devices from any brand at the 
end of their useful life, we offer free recycling 
in every country where we ship consumer 
hardware devices.
 175 
Working with suppliers
Manufacturing waste
In 2023, we achieved UL 2799 validation 
for waste diversion at all final assembly 
manufacturing sites for our consumer 
hardware products.
 176 Of these sites, 75% 
achieved either Zero Waste to Landfill Gold 
classification (representing a 95%–99% landfill 
diversion rate) or Zero Waste to Landfill 
Platinum classification (representing a 100% 
landfill diversion rate). We’ll continue pursuing 
UL 2799 validation for waste diversion at 
our consumer hardware final assembly 
manufacturing sites, including for new sites as 
they’re added in the future.
Safer chemistry
We’re working to eliminate antimicrobials and 
use safer flame retardants and solvents across 
our consumer hardware products. We’re 
collaborating across the industry to raise 
awareness of safer flame retardant options 
available to the electronics sector. We’ve 
partnered with ChemFORWARD, a trusted 
nonprofit with chemical hazard data, on an 
approach to assess chemical safety that goes 
above existing regulatory and industry norms. 
We’ve performed safer chemistry evaluations 
for materials used in our products, and 
we’re expanding this work to drive industry 
progress beyond the standard management 
of regulated chemicals. 
Through our consumer hardware product 
Restricted Substances Specification and  
Manufacturer Restricted Substances List , 
we restrict many hazardous substances and 
ensure our suppliers have processes in place 
to detect and prevent them from entering 
the manufacturing process. In 2023, we 
introduced new hazard-based requirements, 
including mandatory hazard ratings and 
restrictions for certain solvents and flame 
retardants. We also maintain a Responsible  
Chemical Management program, which 
includes assessments, guidance, and training 
resources to help suppliers better mitigate 
occupational and environmental risks related 
to the chemicals they use. 
In 2024, we, along with other companies, 
provided seed funding for the Safer Chemistry 
Impact Fund, which aims to advance science-
based, data-driven solutions to systematically 
eliminate hazardous chemicals and replace 
them with verified, safer alternatives.
TARGET
Make product packaging 100% plastic-free by 2025
Year set: 2020; Target year: 2025
2023 PROGRESS  
For new Google 
products launched 
and manufactured in 
2023, our packaging 
was at least 99% 
plastic-free
 172  
TREND
The increase from at least 96% 
plastic-free packaging in 2022 to 
99% in 2023 was primarily due to 
packaging innovations, including 
implementing fiber-based solutions 
in our packaging material catalog.
 173 
DETAILS
  Based on the total weight of new Google Pixel, Nest, 
Chromecast, and Fitbit retail packaging globally 
(excluding adhesive materials and required plastic 
stickers) for products launched and manufactured 
in a given year, as shipped by Google.
Percentage of product packaging that was plastic-free for 
new Google products launched and manufactured each year
Legend
100
Percentage
0
25
75
50
2021 2022 2023
RESOURCES
•  Accelerating the Circular Economy 
through Commercial Deconstruction  
and Reuse
• Closing the Plastics Circularity Gap
• Electronics Hibernation: Understanding  
Barriers to Consumer Participation in 
Electronics Recycling Services
•  How Android Enterprise Can Help 
Businesses Reduce E-Waste

 56 
Nature and biodiversity
We strive to restore and enhance nature and biodiversity through our campuses and technology 
Our approach
Building for biodiversity
 D eveloping guidelines for urban nature
 C reating and restoring habitat
 M anaging and monitoring habitat
Restoring nature and making  
it more accessible
 Connecting people with nature
Sourcing responsibly
Developing technology to  
address biodiversity loss

 57 
Our approach to nature and biodiversity
Preserving nature is critical for 
supporting biodiverse ecosystems 
and healthy communities, as well 
as for mitigating and adapting to 
climate change. 
We strive to restore and enhance nature and 
biodiversity through a four-pillar approach 
that starts with designing our offices and 
campuses for ecology and actively managing 
our sites to maintain healthy ecosystems. 
This includes everything from developing 
guidelines for urban nature, to increasing 
habitat creation, restoration, and monitoring. 
We also focus on restoring nature and 
making it more accessible in the communities 
where we operate, sourcing responsibly, and 
developing breakthrough technologies to 
address nature and biodiversity loss and assist 
various conservation initiatives (see Figure 28). 
FIGURE 28 Our four-pillar approach to nature conservation and 
biodiversity enhancement
Building for biodiversity
We build for biodiversity on-site at Google offices and  
campuses by designing for ecology and helping to bring  
nature back to cities
Restoring nature and making it more accessible
We nurture the environment and connect people to nature, both 
on our campuses and in the communities where we operate
Sourcing responsibly
We source responsibly across our supply chain, focusing on 
procuring sustainable building and hardware materials and 
supporting biodiverse food systems
Developing technology to address  
biodiversity loss
We create platforms, open tools, and geospatial and AI-powered 
solutions that help increase nature’s resilience to climate change 
and address the causes of nature loss
Building for biodiversity
We build for biodiversity on-site at Google offices and  
campuses by designing for ecology and helping to bring  
nature back to cities
Restoring nature and making it more accessible
We nurture the environment and connect people to nature, both 
on our campuses and in the communities where we operate
Sourcing responsibly
We source responsibly across our supply chain, focusing on 
procuring sustainable building and hardware materials and 
supporting biodiverse food systems
Developing technology to address  
biodiversity loss
We create platforms, open tools, and geospatial and AI-powered 
solutions that help increase nature’s resilience to climate change 
and address the causes of nature loss
• Habitat creation and restoration: 
As of the end of 2023, we created 
or restored approximately 67 acres 
of habitat and planted roughly 
4,500 native trees on Google’s 
campuses and the surrounding 
urban landscape, primarily in the 
San Francisco Bay Area.
• Pollinator habitat: From 2021 to 
2023, we created 20 acres of new 
habitat on our California campuses 
designed to support monarch 
butterflies and other pollinators.
• FSC-certified lumber: 
Approximately 99% of the new 
lumber used for our Gradient 
Canopy building (both temporary 
and permanently installed) was 
procured from responsibly 
managed forests certified by  
the FSC.
 177 
2023 highlights
• Local context, global scale:  
Navigating the local complexities 
of biodiversity and ecosystem 
health while scaling global solutions 
requires careful consideration and 
nuanced approaches. 
• Accounting for benefits of nature: 
Ecosystems are complex and 
support multiple services. Designing 
for specific outcomes can lead to 
unexpected tradeoffs or missed 
opportunities for biodiversity 
benefits.
• Metrics and measurement: As 
the global consensus on nature-
related metrics continues to evolve, 
organizations are working to ensure 
their metrics are transparent and 
impactful. Ecosystems are living, 
dynamic systems—presenting 
unique challenges for measurement 
and ongoing stewardship needs.
• Urban nature: Building nature 
in urban settings requires close 
coordination with capital planning, 
design, and maintenance teams. 
Global challenges

 58 
Building for biodiversity
We’re helping to bring nature 
back into the built environment—
for example, by restoring critical 
habitats like oak woodlands and 
willow groves across our San 
Francisco Bay Area campuses. 
Developing guidelines 
for urban nature
Our campus biodiversity efforts are 
underpinned by our Urban Nature Design 
Guide that establishes criteria for ecologically 
designed landscapes. We made this guide 
freely available for landscape managers and 
the public. 
Our ecology team also issues internal 
guidelines on topics such as pollinator habitat 
design, drought-tolerant native landscaping, 
and native landscape maintenance to translate 
ecological science into action. 
To make the nature-friendly urban design 
approach broadly accessible, we helped 
support the Making Nature’s City Toolkit, 
developed by the San Francisco Estuary 
Institute and the International Union for 
Conservation of Nature. 
We’ve also published our research on 
balancing nature with urban density in an 
open-access academic paper—aiming to 
provide others with replicable tools and 
techniques for integrating nature into cities.
Creating and restoring 
habitat
We’re expanding native, biodiverse habitats 
on our development sites through both large- 
and small-scale efforts that prioritize local 
species. As of the end of 2023, we created or 
restored approximately 67 acres of habitat 
and planted roughly 4,500 native trees on 
Google’s campuses and the surrounding  
urban landscape, primarily in the San 
Francisco Bay Area. 
We made progress on monarch butterfly 
habitat creation: from 2021 to 2023, we 
created 20 acres of new habitat on our 
California campuses designed to support 
monarch butterflies and other pollinators, 
aligned with Google’s 2021 monarch butterfly 
pledge. We’re already seeing benefits, with 
about 10 times more monarch caterpillars at 
our new habitat sites, compared to control 
sites on our campus without new monarch-
friendly plants. Our efforts to support 
pollinator habitats earned us the 2023 
Monarch Sustainer of the Year award from  
Pollinator Partnership.
In 2023, we also completed a native habitat 
restoration project along the West Channel 
near our Sunnyvale, California, campus. This 
project restored 4.3 acres of aquatic, wetland, 
and riparian habitat and is expected to benefit 
local and migratory water birds. Additionally, 
the project provides flood protection for 
adjacent neighborhoods in Sunnyvale via  
a combination of floodwalls and flood  
control levees.
Managing and 
monitoring habitat
Once we’ve installed native landscaping, we 
manage our sites to ensure we’re maintaining 
habitat quality—including assessing our sites 
as part of ongoing maintenance, prioritizing 
wildlife-friendly management practices, and 
refreshing planting areas. At our Bay View 
campus in Mountain View, California, we’ve 
worked to protect nesting cliff swallows, 
and we’ve piloted a rodenticide-free 
pest management approach. In 2023, we 
documented more than 10 species at our Bay 
View campus that we’ve avoided exposing 
to rodenticides as a result of this effort—
including gray foxes, black-tailed jack rabbits, 
and red-tailed hawks.
We also monitor our sites for plant health 
and wildlife biodiversity. In addition to 
monitoring bird biodiversity in New York City, 
we monitored birds during the fall and winter 
of 2023 at our Bay View campus in California 
and identified more than 60 bird species 
using the open water, wetland, oak woodland, 
and grassland habitats—including several 
species where we’ve documented evidence 
of breeding on-site. Earlier projects are also 
showing success, such as the Charleston 
Retention Basin, where oak woodland, willow 
groves, and wetlands have filled into the basin 
since our initial planting in 2016.
We incorporated bird-friendly design 
elements in all of our San Francisco Bay 
Area ground-up construction office projects 
completed in 2023. We’re monitoring key 
buildings to evaluate the effectiveness of our 
design approach in preventing collisions. 
St. John’s Terminal has roughly 1.5 acres of native vegetation, redefining 
what “green space” means for commercial real estate in New York.
SPOTLIGHT
Nurturing biodiversity in the heart of New York
Google’s St. John’s Terminal building in New York City, which opened in 
February 2024, incorporates extensive exterior green spaces. 
Altogether there are roughly 1.5 acres of 
native vegetation at street level, in railbed 
gardens, and on terraces. These green 
spaces are helping to restore the site’s 
native ecology within a modern urban 
context. Over 95% of the exterior plants 
installed at St. John’s Terminal are native  
to New York State, and over 85% are native 
to New York City.
The native vegetation at St. John’s 
Terminal is designed to create biodiverse 
habitat that supports a variety of local 
bird and insect species, with terrace 
and ground-floor plantings intended to 
support nesting, foraging, and migration 
habitat for multiple bird species. The site 
also features nest boxes—often missing 
from city centers—intended to attract 
birds that nest in tree cavities.
We’re monitoring the bird species that 
arrive at the building and, working 
with NYC Audubon from July through 
November 2023, we’ve documented 
around 40 bird species using the habitat 
created at St. John’s Terminal—including 
several species never before documented 
on a green roof. One observed species, 
the Blackpoll Warbler, is a long-distance 
migrant, which our expert partners say 
used the building to fuel up ahead of its 
transatlantic trip to South America.

 59 
Restoring nature and making  
it more accessible
To complement our on-campus 
biodiversity efforts, we’re 
supporting ecological restoration 
efforts beyond our campuses to 
deliver benefits for communities 
and ecosystems. 
As examples, we’ve supported the 
restoration and enhancement of over 750 
acres of monarch butterfly habitat across 
California—achieving Google’s 2021 monarch 
butterfly pledge, and we’ve partnered with 
Southeastern Grasslands Institute to restore 
approximately 100 acres of native prairie 
ecosystem near our data center in  
Clarksville, Tennessee. 
Many of our water replenishment projects also 
deliver co-benefits for nature and biodiversity. 
For example, in 2023 we supported the 
acquisition of a 20-acre parcel of land in 
California’s Central Valley that will enable 
floodplain reconnection and the restoration 
of native riparian forest habitat along the 
Tuolumne River. We’re also advancing wetland 
restoration efforts with a project in Belgium’s 
Sint-Onolfspolder nature reserve via a 
partnership with Natuurpunt’s Wetlands4Cities 
initiative, and in Japan through a partnership 
with Ramsar Network Japan. For more details, 
see the Water stewardship section.
Connecting people with nature
We engage with local communities and lead 
programming that extends the benefits of 
nature to all. In partnership with the Santa 
Clara Valley Audubon Society, the City of 
Mountain View, and other organizations, in 
2023 we continued hosting “Egret Office 
Hours” at the Shorebird Way rookery to 
provide members of the public with the 
opportunity to learn about local birds and 
witness moments throughout the egret 
breeding cycle. 
In 2023, we completed the first sections of the 
Moffett Park Green Link at our Sunnyvale, 
California, campus—a publicly accessible 
landscape network that connects to regional 
walking and cycling corridors. Some of the key 
components of the Green Link include  
the restoration of native plant and tree 
species, as well as landscapes designed 
to reduce demand on local stormwater 
management infrastructure.
The Shorebird Way rookery reflects a broader effort to design and build 
our offices with local environments, ecology, and animal habitats in mind.
Sourcing 
responsibly
We’re focused on sourcing 
responsibly across our supply chain, 
aiming to minimize negative impact 
on global biodiversity by procuring 
sustainable building and hardware 
materials and supporting biodiverse 
food systems. 
For new campus developments, we’ve used 
timber certified by the Forest Stewardship 
Council (FSC)—the world’s leading forest 
certification system for sustainable wood 
building materials. 
Approximately 99% of the new lumber used 
for our Gradient Canopy building (both 
temporary and permanently installed) was 
procured from responsibly managed forests 
certified by the FSC.
 178 And at our new San 
Bruno campus, the mass timber structures of 
the building are built with sustainably sourced 
FSC MIX-certified timber materials.
In partnership with our food vendors, we 
leverage procurement practices and menu 
design to replace monocrop commodities with 
climate-resilient and agrobiodiverse crops 
to ensure our food operations contribute 
positively to global agricultural biodiversity. 
For example, our culinary teams select specific 
regionally biodiverse beans, grains, and 
legumes to add to menus across the globe. 
Developing technology to 
address biodiversity loss
We build tools and technology 
that enable partners, NGOs, 
governments, and academics 
around the world to help address 
nature and biodiversity loss.
The public’s increased search interest in 
“wildlife”—which saw a 138% increase over the 
past two years 179 and reached an all-time high 
in 2023  180—likely indicates a growing desire to 
understand and support conservation efforts. 
As concerns for wildlife escalate, innovative 
technological tools empower us to observe 
animal populations and habitats with 
unprecedented detail, providing essential 
insights for protection and conservation.
Below are just a few examples:
• Giant kelp monitoring: Giant kelp forests, 
crucial to Australia’s Great Southern Reef 
ecosystem, are disappearing rapidly due to 
climate change. That’s why we’ve partnered 
with leading scientific and conservation 
organizations to use AI-powered tools to 
map the remaining kelp forests, identify 
heat-resistant kelp varieties for restoration 
efforts, and raise awareness of this critical 
environmental issue.
• EEAGER: The elusive beaver, a keystone 
species and wetland architect, is finally 
shedding some of its secrecy thanks to 
EEAGER—an image-recognition machine 
learning model pinpointing telltale dam 
complexes amidst vast landscapes, saving 
conservationists countless hours in their 
quest to understand this industrious 
engineer and protect their habitat. 
• Eyes on Recovery: Australia’s devastating 
bushfires were a stark reminder of the 
fragile balance of nature. AI-powered 
cameras are capturing the astonishing 
resilience of wildlife, revealing signs of 
recovery and offering conservationists a 
powerful new tool to track wildlife over time.
• Biodiversity on Britain’s railway: The 
humble dormouse, nestled along Britain’s 
sprawling railway network, is finding new 
hope as AI models illuminate their secret 
lives and guide efforts to protect them from 
dwindling numbers.
• Blue carbon: Similar to forests on land, 
seagrass can take carbon dioxide out of the 
atmosphere as it grows—storing it through 
a process called carbon sequestration. 
We’re working with partners to explore novel 
AI applications to measure the capacity 
of seagrass ecosystems to absorb and 
sequester carbon.
RESOURCES
•  The Biological Deserts Fallacy
•  Biophilia beyond the Building
• Denser and Greener Cities
• Map of Life Indicators Adopted 
in UN Biodiversity Framework

 60 
Appendix
About Google
Sustainability governance
Risk management
Stakeholder engagement and partnership
Multi-sector products
Ecosystems for collaboration 
Environmental data 
Certifications 
Recognitions
Endnotes

 61 
About  
Google
As our founders explained in their 
first letter to shareholders, Google’s 
goal is to “develop services that 
significantly improve the lives of as 
many people as possible.” 
We believe in technology’s potential to 
have a positive impact on the world. That 
unconventional spirit has been a driving force 
throughout our history, inspiring us to tackle 
big problems and invest in moonshots, such as 
our long-term opportunities in AI. We continue 
this work under the leadership of Alphabet 
and Google CEO Sundar Pichai.
Alphabet is a collection of businesses—the 
largest of which is Google. Google comprises 
two segments: Google Services and Google 
Cloud. Google Services’ core products and 
platforms include ads, Android, Chrome, 
devices, Gmail, Google Drive, Google Maps, 
Google Photos, Google Play, Search, and 
YouTube. Our devices include Fitbit wearable 
devices, Google Nest home products, and 
Pixel devices. Our Google Cloud offerings 
include Google Cloud Platform and  
Google Workspace.
Our headquarters are located in Mountain 
View, California. We own and lease office 
facilities and data centers around the world, 
primarily in Asia, Europe, and North America.
To learn more, see our data center locations 
and our office locations.
Sustainability 
governance
Alphabet’s Board of Directors 
has delegated to its Audit and 
Compliance Committee the  
primary responsibility for the 
oversight of many of the risks  
facing our businesses. 
The Audit and Compliance Committee reviews 
and discusses with management any major 
risk exposures, including sustainability risks, 
and the steps that Alphabet takes to detect, 
monitor, and actively manage such exposures.
Our Sustainability Focus Area, an internal 
management team led by our SVP of Learning 
and Sustainability, provides centralized 
management oversight of sustainability and 
climate-related issues.
The Sustainability Focus Area includes the 
Chief Sustainability Officer and executives 
from across the company with diverse skills, 
from teams such as operations, products, 
finance, marketing, legal, communications, 
and policy, among others. 
Through the Sustainability Focus Area, 
sustainability and climate ambitions are 
built into our company-wide goals, plans of 
action, management policies, performance 
objectives, and how we monitor progress. 
Risk  
management
Our Enterprise Risk Management 
(ERM) team works with subject 
matter experts across the enterprise 
to identify, assess, and report 
risks related to the company’s 
operations, financial performance, 
and reputation.
As with financial, operational, and strategic 
risks, the team assesses environmental 
risks as part of the company’s overall 
risk management framework. The risks 
and opportunities identified through this 
process support public disclosures and 
inform Google’s environmental sustainability 
strategy. Our Chief Sustainability Officer and 
sustainability teams work to address risks 
by identifying opportunities to reduce the 
company’s environmental impact from its 
operations and value chain, and by improving 
climate resilience. 
Climate-related risks
Climate-related risks and opportunities can 
span multiple time horizons and may have 
varying levels of uncertainty regarding how 
climate trends, policy, and socioeconomic 
factors might evolve in the future. Google 
continues to build on qualitative and 
quantitative risk assessments to identify 
climate-related risks and opportunities and 
understand their associated impact.
We’ve increased our efforts to align our 
climate risk assessment process more closely 
with the recommendations of the Task Force 
on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures 
(TCFD), leveraging the TCFD categories 
of risks and opportunities and conducting 
climate scenario analyses. In an effort to 
drive completeness and consistency when 
reviewing these categories, we adopted our 
ERM rating scales (i.e., impact, frequency, 
likelihood, control effectiveness) to identify 
and prioritize areas of focus.
Beginning in 2022, climate-related risks and 
opportunities were analyzed across three 
time horizons—short term (through 2030), 
medium term (through 2040), and long term 
(through 2050)—for financial, operational, 
legal, and strategic risks. We considered acute 
and chronic physical risks (e.g., heat stress, 
water stress, and extreme weather events), 
as well as risks associated with transitioning 
to a low-carbon economy (e.g., energy costs, 
future regulations, and technology). We also 
assessed climate-related opportunities (e.g., 
developing low-carbon products and services, 
improving energy efficiency, and advancing 
energy technologies). For more details, see 
our CDP Climate Change Response. 
Water-related risks
To identify and assess water-related risks 
in our direct operations, Google annually 
undertakes a water risk assessment of 
our data centers and offices to identify 
potential water-related risks that may present 
opportunities for water stewardship action 
and risk mitigation. Indicators from available 
risk assessment tools, including WRI Aqueduct 
Water Risk Atlas 3.0 and WWF Water Risk Filter 
6.0, are blended with other metrics to evaluate 
risks related to scarcity, flooding, water 
quality, sanitation and hygiene, reputation, and 
regulatory stressors. 
In 2023, we launched our data center water 
risk framework that allows us to evaluate the 
health of a local community’s watershed and 
establish a data-driven approach to advancing 
responsible water use across our data center 
portfolio. We use our decision-making tool to 
evaluate the environmental responsibility of 
using water for cooling at new or expanding 
data centers. This context-based water risk 
and impact methodology generates more 
granular insights than can be provided by 
other water-risk screening tools. It provides 
us with a framework to measure and evaluate 
site-level water risks and the potential 
watershed impact to inform our decision-
making process for new site selection, cooling 
system design, and ongoing operations.
To identify and assess water-related risks in 
our supply chain, we’ve conducted a supply 
chain water use analysis and a supplier risk 
assessment using WRI’s Aqueduct Water Risk 
Atlas, WWF’s Water Risk Filter, and WULCA 
AWARE. The key risks identified included 
baseline water stress, flood risk, access to 
safe drinking water, and the level of sanitation 
and hygiene services.
To safeguard the health of local waterways, we 
comply with all local environmental regulations 
at our Google-owned and -operated data 
centers and further stipulate that suppliers 
“[treat all wastewater] as required prior to 
discharge or disposal.” We conduct regular 
supplier audits to monitor adherence to our 
code of conduct. Additionally, we’ve engaged 
our suppliers through the CDP Supply Chain 
Water Security questionnaire, inviting them to 
disclose their water management efforts.

 62 
Stakeholder engagement and partnership
We recognize that achieving 
our own sustainability goals and 
addressing the urgency of climate 
change and sustainability requires 
engagement, collaboration, and 
partnership across a diverse set of 
stakeholders. 
That’s why we actively engage with a wide 
range of stakeholders—including employees, 
suppliers, NGOs, policymakers, customers, 
startups, researchers, academics, investors, 
and more. These engagements and 
partnerships are essential for:
• Overcoming barriers to unlock new 
opportunities: We work together to 
overcome obstacles and accelerate 
advancements in sustainability. Only 
through collaboration can we develop and 
implement solutions on a global scale.
• Shared learning: Our engagement work 
also enables us to better understand our 
stakeholders’ perspectives, elaborate on 
our environmental strategy, and progress 
against key targets, and it creates a vital 
two-way dialogue that informs our approach 
to the work. 
• Driving systemic change: These 
partnerships are crucial for advancing 
carbon-free energy technology investment, 
shaping effective policies, and scaling up 
climate solutions around the world.
See below for more information on how  
we engage with some specific  
stakeholder groups. 
Employees
Sustainability is part of Google’s culture, 
with passionate employees actively driving 
environmental initiatives through dedicated 
groups and engagement opportunities. 
For example, employees can join global and 
local internal community groups focused on 
sustainability. One collection of sustainability-
related internal community interest groups 
had 22 chapters across 15 countries as of the 
end of 2023—focused on organizing local 
sustainability activities and raising  
awareness about environmental topics for 
interested Googlers.
Another sustainability-related internal 
community group has more than 3,700 
members globally. This community group 
hosts weekly climate talks featuring internal 
and external speakers and biannual events 
highlighting sustainability-related 20% 
opportunities—whereby Google employees 
are allowed to use 20% of their work time to 
explore innovative ideas beyond their current 
roles. This enables engineers with a diverse 
range of technical skill sets to be deployed 
into addressing climate and sustainability 
challenges, which is critical to unlocking 
innovation and solutions. 
Our Cool Roofs initiative, which you can learn 
more about in the Our products section, is a 
successful example of an effort that originated 
as a 20% project. 
Employees can also learn about sustainability 
through online sustainability courses, internal 
newsletters, campaigns, and websites.
Suppliers
Through our Supplier Responsibility  Program, 
we’re working to build an energy-efficient, 
low-carbon, circular supply chain. We focus  
on the areas where we can make an  
immediate and lasting impact, such as  
helping our suppliers improve their 
environmental performance.
Google’s Supplier Code of Conduct includes 
requirements that enable us to ensure 
that those we partner with are responsible 
environmental stewards. Along with having 
suppliers evaluate their operations, we 
perform our own ongoing due diligence and 
audits to verify compliance and to understand 
our supply chain’s current and potential risks.
We investigate any issues identified during 
an audit, and when we find that a supplier 
isn’t conforming to our expectations, we 
expect the supplier to provide a corrective 
action plan that outlines the root cause of the 
finding, how and when they will resolve the 
issue, and what steps will be taken to prevent 
recurrence. We determine whether the plan 
is acceptable based on our Supplier Code of 
Conduct requirements. Lastly, we monitor and 
verify all corrective actions are completed in 
the agreed-upon time frame, with a process 
for escalation if necessary to the Supplier 
Responsibility Steering Team, which comprises 
our Chief Compliance Officer and leaders 
from our data center, devices, and extended 
workforce teams. 
In 2023, we audited a subset of our suppliers 
to verify compliance for various environmental 
criteria (see Figure 29):
FIGURE 29 2023 audit conformance data for environmental criteria
The lighter bars show the percentage of unique audited supplier facilities that had no findings for the listed criteria after their 
audit. The darker bars show the percentage that had no findings after the corrective action plan (CAP) process was completed.
Environmental management system 98%
98%
95%
92%
97%
98%
91%
Environmental permits and reporting
Hazardous substances
Wastewater and solid waste 
Air emissions 
Product content restrictions
Resource efficiency 
96%
96%
90%
97%
88%
97%
87%
Percentage in conformance before CAPLegend Percentage in conformance after CAP


 63 
Policymakers 
Public policy and advocacy 
Policy measures and corporate commitments will continue to play an important role in driving emissions reductions in the next 
decade. See Figure 30 for our key positions on sustainability policy issues and Figure 31 for a detailed list of our sustainability 
policy engagements in 2023.
FIGURE 30 Our sustainability policy positions
Climate
See Our position on climate policy
Carbon-free  
energy
See A policy roadmap for 24/7 
carbon-free energy
Accelerating  
climate-action with AI
See Accelerating climate  
action with AI
Device  
repairability
See Google & repairability
FIGURE 31 Google’s policy engagements in 2023
Global and cross-cutting initiatives
Advanced clean 
electricity technologies
Google published a paper that highlights the importance of quickly commercializing advanced clean 
electricity technologies alongside the rapid growth of solar and wind. The paper outlines how corporate 
clean energy buyers can drive this progress by supporting favorable policies, signing long-term purchase 
agreements, and providing early-stage project funding. 
Accelerating climate 
action with AI
We released a report with Boston Consulting Group which discusses AI’s potential to mitigate global GHG 
emissions and provides recommendations for how policymakers can enable deployment of AI for climate. 
UNFCCC 28th 
Conference of the 
Parties (COP-28)
Google participated in COP-28, hosted by the United Arab Emirates government and the United Nations.  
Our delegation—including Ruth Porat (President & Chief Investment Officer; Chief Financial Officer), Kate 
Brandt (Chief Sustainability Officer), Yossi Matias (VP of Engineering & Research), along with a number of 
senior subject-matter experts—participated in nearly 200 engagements on the ground throughout the 
conference with public sector leaders from across the globe, advocating for greater climate ambition and 
showcasing the role AI can play in enabling mitigation and adaptation.
United Nations General 
Assembly (UNGA)
Google participated in the 2023 UNGA meetings in New York City, which marked the halfway point on the 15-
year timeline to achieve the 17 UN SDGs. At UNGA, we showcased the role that AI and digital technology can 
play in helping partners achieve and track progress toward the SDGs.
Tripling global 
renewable energy 
capacity
We joined a letter calling for a global target to triple renewable energy capacity by 2030, which governments 
recognized in the COP-28 decision. We also joined a letter highlighting the role of corporate clean energy 
buyers in supporting this objective. 
Founding sponsor of 
Catalyze program
We announced our role as a founding sponsor of the Schneider Electric Catalyze program, which aims to 
increase renewable energy access across the global semiconductor and IT value chains through supplier 
education and combined purchasing power.
United States
Engagement on U.S. federal sustainability, climate, and energy policy
Executive branch 
engagement
Google had multiple engagements across the White House; Departments of State, Defense, Energy, and 
Transportation; and the Environmental Protection Agency to discuss the role of digital technology and AI 
in accelerating climate mitigation and adaptation.
FTC Green Guides
 In response to the FTC’s request for public comment on the Green Guides update, we filed comments 
encouraging the FTC to prioritize true and fair representations in environmental marketing claims—with 
scientific integrity and technical accuracy acting as a north star.
Federal Energy 
Regulatory Commission 
(FERC) Generator 
Interconnection  
final rule
In 2022, Google filed comments ( initial and reply) on FERC’s “Improvements to Generator 
Interconnection Procedures and Agreements (Interconnection) Notice of Proposed Rulemaking.” FERC’s 
final rule, issued in June 2023, acknowledged Google input, including it as a basis for their actions on 
issues around transparency and study delays. 
Western energy  
market expansion
In September 2023, Google submitted comments to FERC supporting California Independent System 
Operator’s (CAISO) proposal to expand its energy market across the Western Interconnect—an 
important step toward a western Regional Transmission Organization. FERC accepted CAISO’s proposal 
in late December, citing our comments in their final order .
FERC transmission 
expansion and cost 
management
In March 2023, Google submitted comments to FERC regarding the cost of transmission projects, 
a significant challenge for our portfolio. Our comments advocated for policies that balance strong 
oversight of transmission project spending with the need for timely grid expansion.
Engagement with coalitions and sustainability initiatives
Electricity  
customer coalitions
We collaborated with partners across tech and traditional commercial and industrial sectors to drive 
customer-centric campaigns like the Electricity Customer Alliance (ECA) and Western Freedom. This 
effort included ECA’s first-ever FERC filing in March 2023, which brought together state officials, trade 
associations, and think tanks to highlight the importance of transmission infrastructure for meeting load 
growth, economic development, and corporate sustainability goals. 
U.S. state engagement
Utility regulation Google participated in many regulatory proceedings and dockets across the United States, collaborating 
with coalition partners to promote the cost-effective adoption of clean energy resources. 
Regulatory frameworks 
for decarbonization
Google led discussions with the National Association of Regulatory Utility Commissioners and the 
National Association of State Energy Officials to discuss how Google’s 24/7 CFE goal can be a supportive 
framework to drive cost-effective grid decarbonization. 
Right to Repair
We affirmed our support for the “Right to Repair” movement, advocating for legislation like the proposed 
bill introduced in Oregon and publishing a white paper outlining our approach to repair issues. This paper 
provides a set of principles for policymakers to consider when creating regulations.
Climate-related 
disclosures
We shared our public support for California’s climate-related disclosure legislation (SB-253 and SB-
261). These bills would require disclosure of Scope 1, 2, and 3 emissions by large U.S. companies doing 
business in the state, along with climate-related financial risk reports.

 64 
Europe
Engagement on European sustainability, climate, and energy policy
Energy Efficiency 
Directive
Google engaged with EU policymakers through DIGITALEUROPE  to inform the development of a 
standardized energy and sustainability reporting framework for data centers and establish measures  
to encourage greater reuse of waste heat. 
Renewable Energy 
Directive
Google worked through DIGITALEUROPE  and RE-Source to advocate for the inclusion of time-stamping 
for Guarantees of Origin in the EU Renewable Energy Directive—enabling hourly CFE matching and 
greater transparency of clean energy claims. 
European electricity 
market redesign
We shared views on the future of European electricity market design in response to an EU consultation, 
advocating for measures that support corporate clean energy procurement and drive European grid 
decarbonization. In partnership with the RE-Source Platform, we successfully advocated for a stronger 
role for corporate clean energy buyers in the EU’s energy transition, with the adoption of several 
measures in the final legislation that enhance the role of PPAs.
EU 2040 climate targets
In response to the EU Commission’s consultation on the EU’s 2040 climate targets, we reaffirmed  our 
support of EU climate leadership. Our submission outlines how technology can drive climate action  
and shares policy recommendations for achieving climate neutrality by 2050.
Google Climate  
Summits in Brussels , 
Germany, France, 
Sweden, and Switzerland
Across five different events throughout the year, we hosted hundreds of leaders—including 
policymakers, members of Parliament, journalists, and decision-makers from business, NGOs, and 
academia—for a series of discussions focused on the role of technology and AI in addressing the  
climate crisis.
DIGITALEUROPE  
report on energy 
digitalization
We contributed to a report by our trade association, DIGITALEUROPE, highlighting how digital technology 
can accelerate energy sector decarbonization. The report features three Google case studies (data 
center cooling, Nest, and Google/ENGIE on wind energy deployment) and has been shared with EU 
policymakers and the International Energy Agency (IEA).
Germany data center 
energy efficiency
We worked constructively with the German government on their Energy Efficiency Bill. Our technical 
deep dives into waste heat recovery at our data centers—a key feature of our first Google-owned 
Germany data center in Hanau—informed these discussions. 
Implement Consulting 
regional reports
 In 2022, we commissioned Implement Consulting Group’s Digital Decarbonisatio n report, which 
demonstrated that digital solutions are essential to achieve 20–25% of the GHG reductions needed 
for a net-zero EU economy. In 2023, we expanded this study with country-specific reports for Sweden, 
Germany, Belgium and Denmark—outlining how targeted digital solutions can accelerate climate action 
in each country. 
Engagement with coalitions and sustainability initiatives
RE-Source Platform
In 2023, we worked with RE-Source to advocate for a stronger role for corporate clean energy buyers 
within Europe’s evolving Electricity Market Design. These efforts led to the adoption of new measures 
promoting PPAs and improving renewable energy access for smaller buyers.
European Green  
Digital Coalition
We helped develop a methodology for measuring the net environmental impact of information 
communication technology (ICT) solutions. We also participated in EGDC-led panel discussions at  
COP-28 and the GeSI Digital with Purpose Summit. 
Sustainability 
partnership with 
European Aviation 
Safety Agency
We announced a partnership with the EU Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) to develop standardized aviation 
emissions estimates. This will provide travelers consistent and reliable flight emissions estimates available 
through airline partners.
European 24/7 Hub
We worked with the European 24/7 Hub , a collaboration with Eurelectric to create a platform where energy 
buyers, suppliers, and policymakers can meet to learn more about 24/7 CFE and receive technical training 
and implementation guidance.
Asia Pacific
ASEAN electricity grid 
regionalization paper
The Asia Clean Energy Coalition (ACEC), of which Google is a founding member, launched a paper , 
supported by Google, advocating for accelerated regional grid integration within ASEAN. This paper 
highlights the economic, energy security, and clean energy benefits of regional electricity markets.
Asia-Pacific Economic 
Cooperation (APEC)
We participated in the APEC Economic Leaders Week in San Francisco, California, to showcase the role 
of AI and digital technology in accelerating climate action in the Asia-Pacific region. We also participated 
in the APEC Energy Ministerial in Seattle, Washington, to discuss the role of corporate clean energy 
purchasing in helping accelerate grid decarbonization and meeting APEC member state climate goals.
Temasek Ecosperity and 
Asia Tech x Singapore 
(ATxSG) Summit
We engaged policymakers and private sector stakeholders in conversations about the critical role of data, 
digital infrastructure, and green computing in sustainability. These discussions centered on the nexus 
between technology and sustainability, as global demands on computing power and AI increase globally.
Asia Action Summit
We sponsored and co-hosted a closed-door roundtable  with Climate Group on democratizing access 
to high-quality granular energy data to advance power system decarbonization. Moderated by the IEA, 
this event brought together key stakeholders—including energy producers, consumers, data providers, 
researchers, and governments—to discuss opportunities in the Asia-Pacific region and develop a call-to-
action for policymakers to facilitate greater access to energy data.
ASEAN Energy Business 
Forum (AEBF)
We participated in AEBF and worked closely with the Asia Clean Energy Coalition (ACEC) to organize a 
session on accelerating power grid interconnectivity, as well as expressed support for strengthening the 
current Memorandum of Understanding on the ASEAN Power Grid.
Singapore International 
Energy Week (SIEW)
Our participation in SIEW’s Energy Insights panel  and TechTable session highlighted our energy thought 
leadership and commitment to achieving 24/7 CFE in the Asia-Pacific region.

 65 
Trade associations and third-party 
groups
We belong to many sustainability-focused 
third-party groups through which we  
engage on sustainability policy issues  
around the world. See Figure 32 for an 
overview of our participation in these 
groups, and consult our CDP Climate Change 
Response for additional details.
We’re members of the U.S. Chamber of 
Commerce, Business Roundtable, and other 
business trade associations where we’re 
engaged in climate and energy policy issues. 
For example, we’re founding members of the 
Chamber’s Task Force on Climate Actions, and 
we’ve engaged within the Task Force since its 
inception to support constructive engagement 
by the Chamber on climate policy to create 
a low-carbon economy. We also participate 
in staff-level discussions on the Business 
Roundtable’s Energy and Environment 
committee. 
We respect the independence and agency 
of trade associations and third parties to 
shape their own policy agendas, events, 
and advocacy positions. Our sponsorship or 
collaboration with a third-party organization 
doesn’t mean that we endorse the 
organization’s entire agenda, its events or 
advocacy positions, or the views of its leaders 
or members. We assess the alignment of our 
trade association participation with the goals 
of the Paris Agreement, and engage within 
organizations to support advocacy for climate 
policies needed to limit warming to 1.5°C and 
create a prosperous and competitive low-
carbon economy. We’re in dialogue with our 
trade associations to encourage alignment 
between our core public policy objectives and 
their policy advocacy activities, including on 
climate change.
FIGURE 32 Select list of Google’s participation in sustainability-focused trade associations, 
memberships, and groups
• Advanced Energy Buyers Group
• Advanced Energy United
• Advanced Power Alliance
• Alliance to Save Energy
• American Clean Power Association 
• American Council on Renewable Energy
• Americans for a Clean Energy Grid
• Asia Clean Energy Coalition
• Business Alliance to Scale Climate Solutions
•  Business Environment Leadership  
Council of the Center for Climate and 
Energy Solutions 
•  Cambridge Institute for  
Sustainability Leadership
• Carolinas Clean Energy  
Business Association 
• Clean Air Task Force
• Clean Energy Buyers Alliance
• Clean Energy Demand Initiative 
• Clean Grid Alliance 
• Conservation Voters of South Carolina
• Corporate Eco Forum
• Data Center Coalition
• DIGITALEUROPE
• Energy Alabama
• Energy Storage Association
• Energy Systems Integration Group
• Energy Tag
• Eurelectric
• Fusion Industry Association
• GeSI
• Japan Climate Leaders Partnership 
• Keystone Energy Board
• Long Duration Energy Storage Council
• Marktoffensive Erneuerbare Energien
• North Carolina Sustainable Energy 
Association 
• Peak Load Management Alliance
• Princeton ZERO Lab
• RE100
• Renewable Northwest
• RE-Source Platform
• Resources for the Future
• Solar Energy Industries Association
• SolarPower Europe
• Trellis Network
• U.S. EPA Green Power Partnership
• Utah Clean Energy
• We Are Still In
• WindEurope
 A green wall at our inaugural Google European Sustainability Summit in Brussels.

 66 
Partners Google partners with many organizations to accelerate progress toward shared sustainability 
goals. Examples of some key partnerships are listed below (see Figure 33).
FIGURE 33 Key partnerships
Organization Details
24/7 Carbon-Free 
Energy Compact
In 2021, Google helped launch  the 24/7 Carbon-Free Energy Compact in partnership with Sustainable Energy for All and 
UN-Energy to help grow the movement to enable zero-carbon electricity.
Ad Net Zero Google is a founding supporter of and active participant in Ad Net Zero—a global initiative to help the advertising 
industry tackle the climate crisis.
Bonneville 
Environmental 
Foundation (BEF)
Google has partnered closely with BEF since 2019 on the implementation of our water strategy, including identifying and 
facilitating impactful water replenishment and watershed health projects globally, with a variety of local organizations 
and partners.
Business for Social 
Responsibility (BSR)
Google has been a BSR member for many years and is one of a few select Spark members. We participate in a number of 
BSR collaboration initiatives, and one of our senior leaders sits on its board.
C40 Cities
C40 and Google launched the 24/7 Carbon-Free Energy for Cities program to empower cities around the world to 
run entirely on clean energy. In 2023, the program was expanded into eThekwini, South Africa with grant support from 
Google.org. C40 is a strategic partner of Google’s Environmental Insights Explorer.
Coalition to End Wildlife 
Trafficking Online
In 2018, Google and other companies launched the Coalition to End Wildlife Trafficking Online, collectively creating  
a wildlife policy framework for online trade and an industry-wide approach to reduce online wildlife trafficking.
CDP
In addition to reporting our carbon footprint to CDP since 2009, Google partnered with CDP to host its annual 
conference, host a hack-a-thon, and launch CDP scores in Google Finance, making corporate carbon disclosure 
information more widely available.
Clean Energy Buyers 
Association (CEBA)
Google was actively involved in the creation of CEBA in 2018. A Google representative continues to serve as the Board 
Chair of this organization. In 2022, Google.org provided a $1 million grant to the Clean Energy Buyers Institute to support 
CEBA’s international expansion.
Climate Neutral Data 
Centre Pact (CNDCP)
Google helped establish the CNDCP, a coalition of European data center operators who commit to a set of voluntary 
sustainability targets to set them on a path toward climate neutrality.
Ellen MacArthur 
Foundation (EMF)
Google joined the Ellen MacArthur Foundation’s Network in 2015 and, as a Network Partner, has jointly co-authored 
thought leadership white papers and case studies covering safer chemistry, building deconstruction and reuse, 
electronics, and AI’s role in the circular economy.
Environmental Defense 
Fund (EDF)
Since 2012, Google has partnered  with EDF to map air quality using Street View cars in the United States, Europe, and 
Southeast Asia—as well as to detect methane leaks in U.S. cities. We’ve launched a partnership with EDF’s MethaneSAT 
to help power their satellite data analysis, map leaks from oil and gas infrastructure around the globe, and put methane 
insights into the hands of scientists and decision-makers.
European 24/7 Hub Google supported the launch of the European 24/7 Hub with Eurelectric, which provides education on the “what, why, 
and how” of 24/7 CFE for buyers and suppliers in Europe.
European Green Digital 
Coalition (EGDC)
Google is an active member of the EGDC—a group of technology companies committed to supporting the green and 
digital transformation of the EU, harnessing the emission-reducing potential of digital solutions for all other sectors, and 
supporting green and digital transformations in the EU.
Exponential Roadmap 
Initiative (ERI)
In 2021, Google joined ERI and the UN Race to Zero Campaign , the largest ever alliance committed to halving emissions 
by 2030 toward net-zero emissions by no later than 2050. In 2023, Google co-hosted Solutions House  during Climate 
Week NYC with ERI and Futerra to engage innovators and solutionists around climate action.
Frontier
In 2022, Google committed $200 million to Frontier, an advance market commitment that will accelerate the 
development of carbon removal technologies by guaranteeing future demand. As one of its founding members,  
we’re helping to guide overall strategy and governance.
Global Covenant of 
Mayors for Climate 
& Energy (GCoM)
Google’s Environmental Insights Explorer was developed in partnership with GCoM through a shared vision to support 
city climate action with useful and accessible data and insights. Today, GCoM is a strategic partner, sharing EIE data with 
its alliance of cities and local governments to accelerate climate action. 
Global Renewables 
Alliance (GRA)
Google is a supporter of GRA’s campaign to triple renewable energy capacity globally by 2030 and have supported 
efforts to encourage high-impact corporate clean energy purchasing as a key strategy to accelerate progress toward 
this goal.
ICLEI Africa
ICLEI Europe
ICLEI USA
Google is a partner of the regional secretariats of ICLEI—Local Governments for Sustainability—in Africa, Europe, and 
the United States. Through these partnerships, ICLEI regional teams support sustainable development projects in cities 
with data and insights from EIE.
International Energy 
Agency (IEA)
We’ve partnered with the IEA on multiple energy-related projects. In 2022, we sponsored research by the IEA on 
advancing decarbonization through clean electricity procurement and we launched a Search feature based on IEA data 
designed to inform people about the energy crisis in Europe and provide energy-saving tips. In 2023, we again leveraged 
IEA data for new Search features on electric vehicles and home heating. In February 2024, Google participated in the IEA 
Ministerial Meeting and 50th Anniversary in Paris, France. 
iMasons Climate Accord Google is a founding member and an active participant in the Governing Body of the iMasons Climate Accord,  
a coalition united on carbon reduction in digital infrastructure. 
ReFED
Since 2018, Google has been working with ReFED—a nonprofit with a mission to catalyze the food system toward 
evidence-based action to stop wasting food—supporting their technical teams and exploring ways to convene 
businesses. In 2022, to activate industry-wide change, Google provided anchor funding to kickstart the ReFED Catalytic 
Grant Fund, which selected as grantees 10 organizations working to accelerate and scale food waste solutions.
The Nature 
Conservancy (TNC)
Google has supported TNC on watershed projects in Chile and the United States. Separately, Google.org supported a 
three-phased approach to catalyze active reforestation of kelp at impactful scales. Google.org also provided a grant to 
TNC to develop a machine-learning-powered timber-tracing API to stop deforestation in the Amazon at scale. A team  
of Google engineers worked full-time for six months with TNC to develop this product as part of the Google.org 
Fellowship Program.
Net Zero Innovation 
Hub for Data Centers
In 2023, Danfoss, Google, Microsoft, and Schneider Electric—together with the Danish Data Center Industry—launched 
the Net Zero Innovation Hub for Data Centers, a pan-European consortium located in Denmark designed for cross-
industry collaboration on decarbonizing the data center industry and ensuring grid stabilization.
Net Zero Public Data 
Utility (NZPDU)
Together with Insomniac Design and CyBourn, Google supported the design and build of the NZPDU proof of concept, 
which is based on recommendations from the Climate Data Steering Committee. Hosted on Google Cloud and launched 
in 2023 at COP28, the NZDPU proof of concept aims to be a freely available, global repository of company-level climate 
transition-related data, allowing users to easily access and interpret a core set of data that’s crucial to realizing the net-
zero transition.
United Nations Food  
and Agriculture 
Organization (UN FAO)
Since 2015, Google and the UN FAO have partnered on the monitoring of forests, natural resources, livelihoods,  
and the environment.
United Nations 
Environment Program 
(UNEP)
In collaboration with UNEP and the European Commission Joint Research Centre, Google launched the Freshwater 
Ecosystems Explorer—a platform that enables all countries to freely measure and monitor freshwater resources  
(toward Sustainable Development Goal 6.6.1), as well as when and where surface water is changing.
World Business 
Council for Sustainable 
Development (WBCSD)
A member of the WBCSD since 2019, Google actively participates in initiatives related to improving well-being for  
both people and the planet—including shifting diets, influencing consumer behavior change, and supporting 
regenerative agriculture. 
World Economic Forum 
(WEF)
Google partners with WEF on various initiatives, including: the First Movers Coalition, which Google joined at WEF’s annual 
meeting in 2022; Google’s Chief Sustainability Officer participates in WEF’s Chief Sustainability Leaders Community  and is 
a co-chair of WEF’s Global Future Council on the Future of Net Zero Living; Google is an active member of WEF’s Tech for 
Climate Adaptation initiative, which launched the report Innovation and Adaptation in the Climate Crisis in 2023; Google 
is a member of WEF’s Alliance for Clean Air; and, Google.org is a member of WEF’s Giving to Amplify Earth Action (GAEA) 
initiative that convenes public, private, and philanthropic partnerships for climate and nature.
World Resources 
Institute (WRI)
Google has supported WRI since 2007. Some key WRI projects include developing a near real-time land cover dataset 
(Dynamic World), launching deforestation monitoring and alerts (Global Forest Watch), ending commodity-driven 
deforestation and accelerating restoration (Forest Data Partnership), measuring and mitigating extreme heat  
(supported by Google.org), and educating stakeholders on 24/7 CFE .

 67 
Multi-sector products
While many of our products focus 
on reducing emissions within their 
respective sectors, others offer 
a more holistic approach. These 
solutions empower our customers 
and partners to make climate-
conscious decisions that support 
both adaptation and mitigation 
across various industries.
Google Cloud
Google Cloud offers organizations solutions 
to drive impact for their business and 
sustainability. We help organizations harness 
AI for improved sustainability measurement 
to build resilience, AI-powered insights to 
use energy and resources more efficiently 
in operations and supply chains to reduce 
costs, and AI tools to unlock new growth 
opportunities and markets while accelerating 
sustainability impact.
Measure 
We help organizations use AI-powered 
insights to monitor their progress toward 
sustainability targets in order to build business 
resilience. For example, our Cloud partner 
Watershed’s software platform is used by 
companies to manage climate and ESG data , 
produce audit-ready metrics for reporting, 
and drive real decarbonization.
Optimize 
We help organizations work more efficiently 
by using AI to streamline energy and resource 
usage across their operations and supply 
chains. For example, Google Cloud, in 
partnership with NGIS (a geospatial solutions 
company), is helping brands gain a deeper 
understanding of sustainable sourcing practices 
across supplier networks. By combining 
the power of our cloud computing, AI, and 
geospatial analytics, we’re helping companies 
get real-time, global, reliable information into 
operations at a local supplier level. This effort 
includes helping companies like Unilever  
build a more holistic view of the forests, 
water cycles, and biodiversity that intersect 
its supply chain. And Regrow—a technology 
company that helps its customers measure, 
manage, and reduce on-farm emissions—is 
using Earth Engine and advanced machine 
learning models to monitor 1.2 billion acres  
of land globally.
Grow 
We help organizations use AI to find new 
growth opportunities and markets in the low-
carbon transition. For example, we launched 
SpatiaFi with our Cloud partner Climate  
Engine to help the banking sector harness 
the power of geospatial analytics to support 
climate finance.
Build 
We help developers reduce the carbon 
footprint of their cloud-based applications. 
We’ve created a suite of products in our 
Carbon Sense Suite so customers can 
accurately measure, report, and reduce their 
cloud carbon emissions (through Carbon  
Footprint) with recommendations for carbon 
reduction actions (through Region Picker and 
Active Assist). We’ve also put together the 
Go Green Software guide, which provides 
a comprehensive overview of how to build 
software that uses energy more efficiently.
Google Earth
Google Earth has democratized geospatial 
information for a wide range of users. It 
renders a 3D representation of Earth by 
superimposing satellite images, aerial 
photography, and GIS data onto a digital 
globe, allowing people to explore our planet 
from endless vantage points. 
Businesses utilize its layers to analyze 
potential renewable energy sites and optimize 
logistics, while governments rely on it for 
urban planning and emergency response. 
Researchers track deforestation patterns, 
explore ocean depths, and visualize complex 
scientific models. Citizens use Google Earth 
to travel the world virtually, discover local 
landmarks, and gain a new perspective on our 
planet. Its vast collection of images and data 
paints a comprehensive picture of the Earth’s 
surface and its history. 
Timelapse in Google Earth is a global, 
zoomable video that provides a clear picture 
of Earth’s dynamic change since 1984, 
illustrating the planet’s transformation. 
Timelapse shows climate change in action, 
as well as beautiful natural phenomena that 
unfold over decades. Timelapse is being  
used in partnership with other technologies 
and programs to empower everyone to  
take climate action across our planet’s cities, 
oceans, and forests.
Google Earth can even illuminate potential 
solutions to ecological problems—revealing 
suitable terrain for solar arrays, providing 
context for conservation efforts, and 
facilitating discussions about responsible 
development. Its insights empower decision-
makers to create more sustainable strategies 
for the future.
Google Earth Engine
Launched in 2010, scientists, researchers, and 
developers have been using Google Earth 
Engine—Google’s planetary-scale platform 
for Earth science data and analysis—to detect 
changes, map trends, and quantify differences 
on the Earth’s surface.
The tool offers over 1,000 Earth observation 
datasets with powerful cloud computing to 
show timely, accurate, high-resolution insights 
about the state of the world’s habitats and 
ecosystems—and how they’re changing over 
time. In 2023, over 100,000 users regularly 
used Google Earth Engine’s data analytics 
and computing for research and educational 
purposes. In 2022, Google Earth Engine 
partnered with Google Cloud Platform to 
enable commercial use, giving businesses and 
governments worldwide access to up-to-date 
insights on how our planet is changing.
Google Earth Engine empowers a wide range 
of stakeholders with sustainability insights. 
Powered by Google Earth Engine, the United 
Nations FAO supports countries with forest 
monitoring to reduce deforestation-related 
emissions. OpenET uses Google Earth Engine 
to power science-based evapotranspiration 
(ET) models that provide vital agricultural 
water usage data in the western United 
States, aiding efficient water management. 
MapBiomas contributes to Brazilian 
conservation with detailed land-use mapping 
powered by Google Earth Engine, and the UN  
Environment Programme World Conservation  
Monitoring Centre (UNEP-WCMC) uses the 
platform to monitor ecological integrity and 
assist nations with biodiversity planning. 
Google Earth Engine’s unique ability to 
process massive geospatial datasets at scale 
provides these organizations with the insights 
needed to drive environmental impact.
A view of our planet from Google Earth ©2020 Landsat / Copernicus

 68 
Data Commons
Every moment, all around the world, 
governments, organizations, and many others 
are generating data on topics as widely varied 
as temperature, agricultural production, or 
groundwater levels. 
This sustainability data, even if publicly 
available, is fragmented across thousands 
of silos, in many formats and schemas, and 
across a multitude of databases rendering it 
difficult to access and use. 
In 2017, we started the Data Commons   
project, which aggregates data from a  
wide range of publicly available sources, like 
from governments and nonprofits, into a 
unified database to make it more accessible 
and useful. 
Data Commons was developed by Google to 
organize sustainability data from hundreds of  
publicly available sources—from the United 
Nations’ Intergovernmental Panel on Climate 
Change (IPCC) to the Brazilian Institute 
of Geography and Statistics to the U.S. 
Department of Commerce—and makes this 
data available to policymakers, researchers, 
nonprofit organizations, journalists, students, 
and anyone trying to better understand 
societal issues and find solutions.
Today, Data Commons is one of the world’s 
largest public knowledge graphs on 
sustainability and includes data about climate, 
health, food, crops, shelter, emissions, and 
more. Our APIs are open and free to anyone 
to build new tools. For enterprise customers, 
this data is available via Data Commons 
on the BigQuery Analytics Hub, via Python 
Collaborative Notebooks, and even via 
embeddable widgets you can include on your 
article or webpage.
The ability to analyze a multitude of publicly 
available datasets with Data Commons 
has allowed it to be used to monitor and 
address a variety of sustainability challenges, 
including helping track progress toward 
the UN Sustainable Development Goals, 
understanding the state of climate progress 
at COP-28, and exploring how farming regions 
will be impacted by climate change.
Last year, Data Commons started harnessing 
the power of AI—specifically large language  
models—to create a natural language 
interface that allows people to ask questions 
like, “Which countries in Africa have had the 
greatest increase in electrification?,” “What 
are the greenhouse gas emissions from these 
places?,” and “How do these places compare 
with the United States and Germany?”
Data Commons is using AI to make the world’s  
public data more accessible and helpful
Ecosystems for collaboration
By investing early in technologies 
aimed at tackling sustainability 
challenges like climate change 
through initiatives such as Google 
for Startups and Startups for 
Sustainable Development, we have 
the potential to move the needle on 
sustainability and positively impact 
our planet.
Google for Startups 
Accelerators
Our sustainability-focused accelerator 
programs work to identify, support, and 
scale startups that are building technologies 
to combat climate change and build a more 
circular economy. 
Google for Startups Accelerators are 10-
week programs designed to bring the best 
of Google’s programs, products, people, and 
technology to Seed to Series A technology 
startups. In addition to mentorship and 
technical project support, Google for Startups 
Accelerator programming focuses on product 
design, customer acquisition, and leadership 
development for participating founders.
• Google for Startups Accelerator:  
Climate Change: Since launching the 
program in 2021, we’ve hosted six climate 
accelerators across five continents, which 
have collectively supported 68 startups that 
report they’ve raised over $800 million in 
funding. The first two cohorts included 21 
climate-focused startups in North America . 
In 2023, in addition to hosting another North 
American accelerator, we expanded this 
program to Europe, in partnership with 
Google Cloud, as well as to Latin America 
and the Middle East and Africa.
• Google for Startups Accelerator:  
Circular Economy: This program focuses 
on supporting startups in North America 
and the Asia-Pacific region working on 
challenges related to advancing a more 
circular economy—from food waste to 
fashion, recycling, and reuse—via advanced 
technologies including AI. In 2023, we 
supported startups through a 10-week 
curriculum complete with guidance from 
Google and industry leader mentors. These 
11 participating startups report they’ve 
raised over $46 million in funding. 
Startups for Sustainable 
Development
Through our Startups for Sustainable 
Development program, we’re working with 
impact-driven startups using technology 
to address one or more of the UN’s 17 
Sustainable Development Goals, from 
eradicating poverty and hunger to improving 
healthcare and advancing climate action. 
Startups receive long-term support to scale 
their impact, including mentoring from  
expert advisors, connections to funding 
partners, and access to cutting-edge  
research and technology. 
The program now supports more than 500 
startups in over 70 countries, working with a 
network of over 180 partner organizations.
Googlers working and collaborating in an office in New York City.

 69 
Google.org grantees
Google.org— Google’s philanthropy—
supports nonprofits, civic entities, and other 
organizations that address humanitarian 
issues worldwide. We empower these 
organizations with a unique blend of funding, 
in-kind donations, and technical expertise 
from Google employees—supporting scalable, 
data-driven solutions to global challenges with 
the potential to produce meaningful change.
Helping to pilot and scale AI 
solutions for sustainability
A key focus of Google.org is supporting 
efforts to accelerate climate action. We 
do this by leveraging technology and data, 
especially AI and machine learning, to support 
the creation of free, open-sourced tools and 
datasets for the global community. In 2023, we 
granted more than $67 million to social impact 
organizations for projects that leverage AI 
to build a more sustainable world, including 
through two open-call funding programs 
launched in 2022—the Google.org Impact  
Challenge on Climate Innovation and AI for the 
Global Goals.
The Google.org Impact Challenge on Climate 
Innovation provided $30 million to support 
breakthrough projects that use information, 
innovation, and AI to accelerate climate action. 
Selected organizations received funding to 
scale their activities, along with access to 
Google’s technical expertise to help them 
maximize their impact. Over 800 organizations 
applied to the program, and we were 
impressed with the quality and ambition of 
ideas submitted. Climate adaptation was the 
most represented submission topic, matching 
an urgency to support those most affected 
by climate change, while nearly half of the 
submissions directly targeted impacts in the 
Global South.
In 2023, as part of this program, Google.
org provided $5 million to World Wildlife 
Fund (WWF) to support ManglarIA—“AI for 
Mangroves.” Through this project, WWF is 
using AI to analyze data about mangrove 
forests in Mexico. This work will provide 
conservationists around the world with the 
tools and information they need to conserve 
and restore these vital ecosystems in a 
changing climate. The Woodwell Climate 
Research Center was another program 
recipient, receiving $5 million in 2023 to 
develop a near real-time tracking system for 
Arctic permafrost thaw with the Permafrost 
Discovery Gateway. This project will help 
researchers, nonprofits, and others forecast 
seasonal permafrost thaw and estimate 
associated carbon release. Additionally,  
some Google employees will provide full-time  
pro-bono support for six months through  
the Google.org Fellowship Program,  
working alongside the Woodwell team to help 
build scalable machine learning workflows and 
data tools.
Technology will be a vital tool to help meet 
global goals like the Global Methane Pledge , 
which aims to reduce methane emissions by 
30% by 2030. In 2023, Google.org provided 
more than $8 million to organizations working 
on methane mitigation solutions through 
expanded support of the Global Methane Hub .
• As part of the Google.org Impact Challenge 
on Climate Innovation, $5 million will support 
the development of WasteMAP—a platform 
consolidating satellite information on 
landfill methane emissions. WasteMAP will 
empower local governments and nonprofits 
to pinpoint methane sources, allowing them 
to take action and mitigate emissions before 
they become hazardous. 
• To expand our support of methane 
reduction beyond the Google.org Impact 
Challenge, $3.25 million will support the 
UNEP International Methane Emissions 
Observatory to develop a new AI-based 
system for detecting methane emissions. 
This system will automatically detect, alert, 
and notify governments and corporations 
about their methane emissions, empowering 
them to take action.
In 2023, Google.org announced the 15 
projects selected for the AI for the Global 
Goals program, a $25 million commitment 
to support innovative AI-driven approaches 
that accelerate progress on the UN SDGs. 
Among the 15 supported organizations, three 
projects accelerated environmental progress 
specifically. This effort includes DHI A/S, 
which received $2 million to develop machine 
learning models to accurately monitor 
wetlands globally, in partnership with UNEP. 
Beyond our work with the Google.org Impact 
Challenge on Climate Innovation and AI for the 
Global Goals, we provided an additional $30 
million in 2023 to other AI-based sustainability 
and climate action projects.
Supporting grassroots innovation
As of 2022, Google.org provided more than 
$9 million in funding to the Windward Fund 
to launch the Environmental Justice Data 
Fund (EJDF). This fund seeks to address the 
disproportionate climate and environmental 
impact on frontline communities that have 
been historically underserved. Announced in 
2023 at COP-28, Google.org expanded  
its funding for the EJDF by more than $3.5 
million. This additional support is dedicated  
to addressing air quality, water quality,  
and environmental hazards faced by  
frontline communities.
The Asia-Pacific region—particularly its 
low-lying and small island countries—is 
exceptionally vulnerable to climate change. 
Local organizations are at the forefront 
of developing sustainable practices and 
combating impacts, such as heat waves, rising 
sea levels, and biodiversity loss. Google.org’s 
support for the Asia Venture Philanthropy 
Network’s (AVPN) APAC Sustainability Seed Fund  
began in 2022 with a $3 million grant to 
support 13 local organizations focused on 
underserved communities in the region. 
In 2023, we expanded this support with an 
additional $5 million grant for the APAC 
Sustainability Seed Fund 2.0 . This work is also 
supported by the Asian Development Bank 
(ADB), which acts as the strategy and outreach 
partner for the fund.
Calling on others
Google.org actively champions increased 
corporate philanthropy for innovation in the 
nonprofit and social impact sectors, and we’ll 
continue encouraging other private actors 
to join these efforts. Our open-call programs 
clearly demonstrate strong interest from the 
social impact and social enterprise sectors to 
use AI to tackle the climate crisis. Corporate 
philanthropy has the opportunity to play 
an important role in catalyzing innovation 
and impact by providing the risk capital and 
non-financial resources that organizations 
need for bold experimentation. That’s why we 
partnered with the WEF’s Giving to Amplify 
Earth Action initiative and joined a community 
of like-minded corporate philanthropies 
and leading foundations to help launch the 
Corporate Philanthropy Challenge for People 
and Planet, with the shared goal of mobilizing 
$1 billion in catalytic capital for climate and 
nature solutions by 2030.
The Google.org Impact Challenge on Climate 
Innovation supports breakthrough projects that use 
data and technology to accelerate climate action.

 70 
Environmental data
Report scope
The reporting period for our environmental 
data covers our fiscal year January 1, 2023, 
through December 31, 2023. Most of our 
environmental data covers Alphabet Inc. and 
its subsidiaries. All reported data is global and 
annual unless otherwise specified. 
Data measurement and 
uncertainty
All reported values represent the best data 
available at time of publication. Where actual 
data isn’t available, we may use estimates. We 
base our estimates and methodologies on 
historical experience, available information, 
and on various other assumptions that we 
believe to be reasonable. 
All environmental data found in this report 
is subject to measurement uncertainties 
resulting from limitations inherent in the 
nature and the methods used for determining 
such data. The selection of different but 
acceptable measurement techniques can 
result in materially different measurements. 
The precision of different measurement 
techniques may also vary. 
Recalculation of 
previous environmental 
metrics
Our internal recalculation policy, which 
follows guidance from the Greenhouse Gas 
Protocol, informs how we apply updates made 
in the current reporting period to metrics 
from prior reporting periods—including our 
2019 base year for our emissions reduction 
target. Updates may include structural 
changes, calculation methodology updates, 
the inclusion of additional activity data, 
improvements in the accuracy of emission 
factors or activity data, and the correction 
of errors. To maintain consistency over time 
so that meaningful metric comparisons can 
be made, it may be necessary to recalculate 
our historical metrics, including base 
year emissions, to the extent a change is 
significant.
In line with our recalculation policy, in 2023 
we recalculated certain previously reported 
metrics, including our GHG emissions for our 
2019 base year and interim years presented 
where the impact was deemed significant.  
See our Environmental data table endnotes  
for more information on which metrics 
and years were recalculated. The changes 
primarily included:
• We recalculated Scope 1 and Scope 2 
(market-based) emissions to include fugitive 
emissions from refrigerant leakage.
• Scope 3 emissions:
 Ǣ   We revised our methodology to calculate 
emissions related to our consumer devices 
manufacturing, as we migrated from a 
spend-based methodology to a Life Cycle 
Assessment-based methodology. 
 Ǣ   We made improvements to the quality 
of data used in estimating our emissions 
associated with manufacturing our 
equipment used in our technical 
infrastructure, that include supplier-
specific data; as well as the LCAs and 
LCA emission factors used to calculate 
emissions related to data center 
construction.
 Ǣ   We included two additional Scope 
3 categories to our GHG emissions 
inventory—Category 3 and Category 5—
and added these two categories to our 
reported historical inventories.
 Ǣ   To enhance transparency, we now present 
“Category 1: Purchased goods and 
services” separately in our Environmental 
data tables. In previous years, emissions 
generated from manufacturing consumer 
devices were presented in “Category 2: 
Capital goods” while emissions from our 
food program were presented in “Other 
categories.” Now, both are included in 
Category 1. 
 Ǣ   In addition, we began calculating 
emissions generated from remaining 
goods and services purchased for our 
operations, and have included these 
emissions in the newly presented 
Category 1.
We continually review emissions calculation 
methodologies and are committed to 
implementing best practices.
Assurance 
We obtain limited third-party assurance 
from an independent auditor for certain 
environmental metrics, including select GHG 
emissions, energy, and water metrics as 
indicated in our Environmental data tables . 
Ernst & Young LLP reviewed these metrics 
within the Schedules of Select Environmental 
Indicators for the fiscal year ended December 
31, 2023 and the Schedule of Base Year GHG 
Emissions (including Recalculation) for the 
fiscal year ended December 31, 2019. For more 
details, see our 2024 (FY2023) Independent  
Accountants’ Review Report.
Methodology
The below methodologies apply to our GHG 
emissions, as well as certain other carbon, 
energy, water, and waste metrics for all 
years presented in our Environmental data 
tables. These metrics have been rounded 
as described below. Due to rounding, some 
of our reported values for prior years don’t 
directly match the related Independent 
Accountants’ Review Reports from those years.
Greenhouse gas emissions
GHG emissions reporting standards
GHG emissions are calculated according 
to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol standards 
and guidance developed by the WRI and the 
WBCSD, including A Corporate Accounting 
and Reporting Standard (Revised Edition), 
Scope 2 Guidance, and Technical Guidance 
for Calculating Scope 3 Emissions (collectively, 
“the Greenhouse Gas Protocol”). 
Our inventory
We use the operational control approach to 
define our organizational boundary, which 
means that we account for all emissions 
from operations over which we have control. 
We define operational control as having 
the authority to introduce and implement 
operational policies over an asset, and we 
report all energy and emissions for Alphabet 
Inc. and its subsidiaries’ data centers, offices, 
and other assets under our operational control 
(“Global Facilities”).
Our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions include 
four of the seven GHGs addressed by the 
Kyoto Protocol—carbon dioxide (CO
2), 

 71 
methane (CH4), nitrous oxide (N2O), and 
hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs). Other GHGs, 
including perfluorocarbons (PFCs), sulfur 
hexafluoride (SF
6), and nitrogen trifluoride 
(NF3), aren’t included in our inventory, 
as they’re not emitted as a result of our 
operations. We report emissions both in the 
unit of metric tons per gas (i.e., tCO
2, tCH4, 
tN2O, and tHFCs) and in the standardized unit 
of metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent 
(tCO
2e), with the exception of biogenic 
emissions which are reported as tCO2 only. 
We round all reported emissions values to 
the nearest hundred, except for Scope 3 
emissions (which we round to the nearest 
thousand) and emissions per gas (which we 
round to the nearest hundred, unless the total 
is less than 50 tons in which case we report to 
the nearest one).
We source the global warming potentials 
(GWP) for each GHG from the IPCC Fourth 
Assessment Report, Appendix A: Global 
Warming Potentials (AR4), and IPCC Fifth 
Assessment Report (AR5) in select instances.
Scope 1 GHG emissions
Scope 1 GHG emissions are direct emissions 
from sources such as company vehicles or 
generators at our offices and data centers. 
They represent direct emissions from owned 
Global Facilities, including fuel use from 
back-up generators, fuel consumption from 
our operated vehicles and aircraft, methane 
and nitrous oxide from biogenic fuel sources, 
natural gas usage, and refrigerant leakage. 
Where actual data isn’t available, for example 
from a utility bill, we estimate natural gas 
consumption using square footage of Global 
Facilities and internally developed natural 
gas intensity factors by office type, based 
on data from the reporting period. Where 
actual refrigerant leakage data isn’t available, 
we estimate refrigerant leakage by taking 
an average of GWP values from known 
refrigerants within our portfolio and leakage 
rates at Global Facilities.
The emission factors used to calculate Scope 1 
emissions include the 2017 WRI/WBCSD GHG 
Protocol Emission Factors from Cross Sector 
Tools, the 2023 EPA Center for Corporate 
Climate Leadership GHG Emission Factors 
Hub, 2023 Climate Registry Default Emission 
Factors, and the 2023 Department for 
Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA) 
UK Government GHG Conversion Factors.
Scope 2 GHG emissions
Scope 2 GHG emissions are indirect emissions 
from: purchased electricity; natural gas use 
and refrigerant leakage in our leased offices; 
purchased steam, hot water, and chilled water 
from district energy systems. The location-
based method reflects the average carbon 
intensity of the electric grids where our 
operations are located and thus where our 
electricity consumption occurs. The market-
based method incorporates our procurement 
choices, namely our renewable energy 
purchases via contractual mechanisms  
like PPAs. 
We use actual data (such as third-party 
invoices, monthly utility bills, or meter 
readings) to calculate Scope 2 emissions. 
Where actual data isn’t available, we 
estimate electricity consumption, natural gas 
consumption, and activity from district energy 
systems using square footage of Global 
Facilities and internally developed intensity 
factors by office type, based on data from the 
reporting period.
The emission factors used to calculate Scope 
2 (location-based) emissions include the 
2017 WRI/WBCSD GHG Protocol Emission 
Factors from Cross Sector Tools, the 2023 
EPA Center for Corporate Climate Leadership 
GHG Emission Factors Hub, the 2023 DEFRA 
UK Government GHG Conversion Factors, 
the 2023 IEA Emission Factors, the 2024 EPA 
eGRID Emission Factors, and the 2023 Climate 
Registry Default Emission Factors.
The emission factors used to calculate Scope 
2 (market-based) emissions are the same as 
Scope 2 (location-based) with the addition of 
emission factors specific to energy attribute 
certificates. Outside of Europe, residual 
emission factors aren’t available from third-
party sources to account for voluntary 
purchases, and this may result in double 
counting between electricity consumers.
Scope 3 GHG emissions
Scope 3 GHG emissions are indirect emissions 
from other sources in our value chain, such 
as our suppliers, the use of our consumer 
devices, and business travel. In 2023, we 
included two additional Scope 3 categories 
to our GHG emissions inventory—Category 3 
and Category 5—and added these categories 
to our reported historical inventories. We 
calculate our Scope 3 GHG emissions using 
the Greenhouse Gas Protocol’s Technical 
Guidance for Calculating Scope 3 Emissions 
(version 1.0), in the following categories 
identified as relevant: 
• Category 1: Purchased goods and services
• Category 2: Capital goods
• Category 3: Fuel- and energy-related 
activities not included in Scope 1 or Scope 2
• Category 4: Upstream transportation  
and distribution
• Category 5: Waste generated in operations
• Category 6: Business travel
• Category 7: Employee commuting,  
including teleworking
• Category 11: Use of sold products
• Category 12: End-of-life treatment of  
sold products
None of the Scope 3 categories have 
associated biogenic CO
2 emissions. For all 
reported Scope 3 categories, we report 
emissions according to their minimum 
boundaries listed by the Greenhouse Gas 
Protocol. For certain categories, we’ve also 
included activities which the Greenhouse Gas 
Protocol deems optional. 
In our Environmental data tables , we present 
certain emissions from Category 2, Category 
11, and Category 12 as an aggregated 
subtotal—“Other categories”—for business 
reasons, as described further below.
“Category 1: Purchased goods and 
services” includes upstream emissions 
generated from manufacturing consumer 
devices, our food program, and additional 
goods and services purchased for our 
operations. We use the hybrid method, as 
defined by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. 
To calculate full supply chain emissions 
generated from manufacturing consumer 
devices, we perform third-party-verified Life 
Cycle Assessments (LCAs) in accordance 
with ISO 14040 and ISO 14044. To calculate 
emissions generated from our food program, 
we use LCA emission factors from WRI 
and annual procurement volumes from 
our offices. Where actual procurement 
volume data isn’t available, we extrapolate 
calculated emissions to our other offices using 
building admittances. To calculate emissions 
generated from the remaining goods and 
services purchased for our operations we 
estimate supplier emissions using spend data 
and industry-average GHG intensities by 
commodity type. 
“Category 2: Capital goods”  includes 
upstream emissions generated from goods 
and services we purchase for our operations, 
including manufacturing and assembly of 
servers and networking equipment used in our 
technical infrastructure, as well as emissions 
from materials used in the construction of 
data centers and offices. We use the hybrid 
method, as defined by the Greenhouse Gas 
Protocol. For manufacturing and assembly of 
servers and networking equipment used in our 
technical infrastructure, we collect supplier 
GHG emissions data from our contract 
manufacturers, component suppliers, and 
fabless suppliers through the CDP Supply 
Chain Program. These suppliers represent 
our key “Tier 1” manufacturing suppliers with 
whom we have a direct relationship. Per GHG 
Protocol, a “Tier 1” supplier provides or sells 
goods or services directly to a company, while 
a “Tier 2” supplier provides or sells goods or 
services to the company’s “Tier 1” supplier. 
Where actual supplier emissions data isn’t 
available, we estimate supplier emissions 
using spend data, U.S. Environmentally-
Extended Input-Output industry-average 
GHG intensities by commodity type, or other 
supplier GHG data. We calculate data center 
construction emissions by using an LCA 
analysis to derive construction emissions data 
and then applying this to our construction 
activity. In our Environmental data tables, 
we present emissions beyond our “Tier 1” 
manufacturing suppliers in “Other categories.”
“Category 3: Fuel- and energy-related 
activities not included in Scope 1 or 
Scope 2” includes upstream emissions from 
purchased fuels (e.g., natural gas, diesel, 
and gasoline) and purchased energy (i.e., 
electricity, steam, heating, and cooling), as 
well as emissions from transmission and 
distribution losses from purchased energy, 
calculated using the market-based Scope 2 
total. We use the average-data method, as 

 72 
defined by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. 
We calculate upstream emissions from 
purchased fuel, steam, heating, and cooling 
and emissions from transmission and 
distribution of steam, heating, and cooling, 
using 2023 DEFRA UK Government GHG 
Conversion Factors. We calculate emissions 
from upstream electricity by country using 
the 2023 IEA Emission Factors. We calculate 
emissions from electricity transmission and 
distribution losses using the 2023 IEA Emission 
Factors and, for the United States, the 2024 
EPA eGRID Emission Factors. For upstream 
electricity, we calculate emissions using 
Scope 2 market-based data (i.e., by using 
the remaining electricity not addressed by 
renewable energy).
“Category 4: Upstream transportation 
and distribution” includes emissions 
generated primarily from transportation 
and warehousing of our consumer products 
and data center equipment. We calculate 
this category’s emissions to also include the 
optional activities of (1) upstream emissions of 
transportation, and (2) transportation of data 
center equipment to decommission locations 
(which is an optional activity under Category 
5). We use a combination of the fuel-based, 
distance-based, and site-specific methods, 
as defined by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. 
For transportation emissions, we collect data 
from our logistics providers. These WTW GHG 
emissions are calculated based on fuel use or 
weight-distance data and routing associated 
with a shipment. Where actual logistics 
provider emissions data isn’t available, we 
estimate WTW emissions using weight and 
distance data by shipment collected from 
our providers, using emission factors from 
the 2023 Global Logistics Emissions Council 
(GLEC) framework or EPA SmartWay carrier 
performance data. Where logistics provider 
weight and distance data isn’t available, 
we estimate emissions based on reported 
data from other transportation providers 
and the weight shipped. For warehousing 
emissions, we collect energy and refrigerant 
leakage data directly from the warehouses 
and calculate emissions using LCA electricity 
and fuel emission factors from the Sphera 
Professional database 2023 and refrigerant 
emission factors from the 2023 EPA Center for 
Corporate Climate Leadership GHG Emission 
Factors Hub. Where actual warehouse energy 
data isn’t available, we estimate the energy 
using the 2018 Commercial Buildings Energy 
Consumption Survey (CBECS) data and the 
warehouse square footage allocated to 
Alphabet. Where actual warehouse refrigerant 
leakage data isn’t available, we estimate 
refrigerant leakage based on the average 
leakage rate from available data. 
“Category 5: Waste generated in 
operations” includes emissions from solid 
waste generated at our offices and data 
centers that is either composted, recycled, 
landfilled, or incinerated (with or without 
energy recovery). We calculate this category’s 
emissions to also include the optional activity 
of waste transportation, which is embedded 
in the emission factors we use. We use a 
combination of the waste-type-specific 
method and the average-data method, as 
defined by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. 
The waste generation data comes from a 
combination of data from invoices and on-site 
measurements. Where actual waste data isn’t 
available for a specific facility, we estimate 
waste tonnage using waste container size 
and pickup frequency, actual waste data from 
similar facilities, or historical waste data from 
the same facility. We use waste type- and 
disposal type-specific emission factors from 
the 2023 EPA Center for Corporate Climate 
Leadership GHG Emission Factors Hub for U.S. 
activity and the 2023 DEFRA UK Government 
GHG Conversion Factors for non-U.S. activity.
“Category 6: Business travel”  includes 
emissions from business-related air, rail, bus, 
personal vehicle, taxi, rideshare, shuttle, and 
rental car travel, including emissions from 
relocation travel. We use a combination of the 
distance-, fuel-, and spend-based calculation 
methods, as defined by the Greenhouse Gas 
Protocol. We collect all travel data through 
either our online booking system or a third-
party travel agency. We calculate emissions 
from air, rail, taxi, rideshare, non-U.S. personal 
vehicle, and non-U.S. shuttle travel using 2023 
DEFRA UK Government GHG Conversion 
Factors. We calculate emissions from car 
rental, U.S. personal vehicle, and U.S. shuttle 
travel using emission factors from the 2023 
EPA Center for Corporate Climate Leadership 
GHG Emission Factors Hub. 
“Category 7: Employee commuting, 
including teleworking”  includes emissions 
from the transport of our full-time employees 
between their homes and their worksites 
by passenger car (i.e., carpool, dropoff, taxi, 
rideshare, or single-occupied vehicle), rail, 
bus, motorcycle, and gas-powered scooter. 
We calculate this category’s emissions to also 
include the optional activity of teleworking. We 
use the distance-based method, as defined by 
the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. We survey our 
employees to determine typical commuting 
and teleworking patterns and apply these 
patterns to our global employee population. 
We use a mode-specific commuting 
distance obtained from the American Public 
Transportation Association’s 2021 Fact Book 
and the U.S. Department of Transportation’s 
2022 National Household Travel Survey. We 
calculate employee commuting emissions 
using mode-specific emission factors from 
the 2023 EPA Center for Corporate Climate 
Leadership GHG Emission Factors Hub. We 
account for the home energy emissions 
generated by our full-time employees 
working remotely by applying the estimation 
methodology outlined in EcoAct’s 2020  
Homeworking Emissions white paper to our 
annual average teleworking workforce.
“Category 11: Use of sold products”  
includes downstream emissions generated 
by Google’s flagship consumer devices sold 
in the reporting period. Flagship consumer 
devices are products that can provide their 
main functionality without connection to 
another product. For example, this generally 
doesn’t include accessories such as cases. 
We calculate emissions from these activities 
using laboratory power draw measurements, 
data on use patterns, common industry 
assumptions on product lifetimes, and 
LCA electricity emission factors from the 
2023 Sphera LCA for Experts database. In 
our Environmental data tables, we present 
emissions from use of sold products in  
“Other categories.”
“Category 12: End-of-life treatment of sold 
products” includes downstream emissions 
associated with the end-of-life treatment of 
Google’s flagship consumer devices sold in 
the reporting period. We use the average-data 
method, as defined by the Greenhouse Gas 
Protocol. We calculate end-of-life emissions 
through our LCA process, using emission 
factors from the 2023 Sphera LCA for Experts 
database. Our annual assessments continue 
to identify this category to be one that 
doesn’t have significant life-cycle impact. We 
continue to develop programs to extend the 
life of our sold products and also to ensure 
efficient management of end-of-life materials. 
In our Environmental data tables , we present 
emissions from end-of-life treatment of sold 
products in “Other categories.”
Biogenic emissions
In accordance with the Greenhouse Gas 
Protocol, we report biogenic emissions 
separately from other Scope 1 GHG emissions. 
Our biogenic CO
2 emissions are generated 
from our operated vehicles and generators 
that consume biofuels. We calculate biogenic 
emissions using emission factors from the 
2023 EPA Center for Corporate Climate 
Leadership GHG Emission Factors Hub.
Other carbon and energy metrics
We calculate our carbon intensity metrics  as 
defined by GRI Disclosure 305-4a-c. Carbon 
intensity metrics are based on gross global 
combined Scope 1 and Scope 2 (market-
based) emissions. We round reported carbon 
intensity per unit of revenue and per full-
time equivalent (FTE) employee values to 
the nearest hundredth, and reported carbon 
intensity per MWh of energy consumed values 
to the nearest ten thousandth.
We calculate total energy consumption  
as defined by GRI Disclosure 302-1e-f. 
Total energy consumption includes all fuel 
and natural gas consumption; purchased 
electricity, steam, heating, cooling; and all 
electricity generated on-site from renewable 
sources. We round reported energy 
consumption metrics to the nearest hundred. 
We calculate total electricity consumption  
as defined by GRI Disclosure 302-1c(i) and 
302-1f. Total electricity consumption includes 
both purchased and self-generated electricity. 
Where actual natural gas or electricity 
consumption for facilities isn’t available, we 
estimate consumption using company  
square footage and internally developed 
intensity factors based on data from the 
reporting period.
We calculate electricity purchased from 
renewable sources (%) on a calendar-year 
basis for our global operations by dividing 
the megawatt-hours of renewable electricity 
procured (i.e., through PPA contracts, on-site 

 73 
renewable energy generation, and renewable 
energy in the electric grids where our facilities 
are located) by the total megawatt-hours of 
electricity consumed. This metric includes 
all renewable energy purchased, regardless 
of the market in which we consumed the 
renewable energy. To achieve our 100% 
renewable energy match goal, we first 
consider both our on-site renewable energy 
generation and the renewable electricity 
already in the electric grids where our facilities 
are located (using the residual mix where 
data is available). We then procure renewable 
energy through PPAs and utility renewable 
energy tariffs. We have a few facilities located 
in geographies where we’re not currently 
able to source large volumes of renewable 
energy, so we make up for this by procuring 
surplus renewable energy in regions where it’s 
abundant. For example, by procuring larger 
amounts of wind energy in places like Europe, 
we compensate for our lack of renewable 
energy purchases in the Asia-Pacific region. 
We calculate Google CFE as a percentage 
that measures the degree to which our 
electricity consumption on a given regional 
grid is matched with CFE on an hourly basis. 
This is calculated using both CFE under 
contract by Google (Contracted CFE) as well 
as CFE coming from the overall grid mix (Grid 
CFE). Grid CFE refers to the percentage 
of carbon-free energy sources consumed 
within a Regional Grid. Grid CFE is applied to 
Google’s load for any hour where Google’s 
Contracted CFE is less than the load. Grid 
CFE values are calculated by a third party, 
Electricity Maps.
We calculate Contracted CFE as a 
percentage of our load that’s matched with 
CFE on an hourly basis due entirely to the CFE 
that we purchase, and without consideration 
of the CFE already on the grids where we 
operate. If Google’s total Contracted CFE 
exceeds our load in a given hour and region, 
the contracted CFE consumed by Google 
is capped at the load; this means the CFE 
percentage in this hour would be 100% and 
that “consumed” Contracted CFE can never 
exceed 100%. The “excess CFE” from the 
projects under contract that generate MWhs 
of clean electricity over and above what 
Google consumes in a particular hour is not 
counted toward our Google CFE percentage, 
however it still contributes to decarbonization 
of the broader grid.
We calculate Consumed Grid CFE as a 
percentage of our load in a given market 
that’s matched with CFE from the grid after 
the application of Contracted CFE. For hours 
when Contracted CFE equals or exceeds our 
load, Consumed Grid CFE is equal to zero. 
If our Contracted CFE is less than our load 
in an hour, then the Consumed Grid CFE is 
calculated by applying the hourly Grid CFE 
percentage to the remaining load, and then 
dividing that product by the total load in that 
hour.
For more details on how we calculate  
carbon-free energy percentages, please see  
24/7 Carbon-Free Energy: Methodologies  
and Metrics.
Water metrics
Global operational water
We report all operational water metrics for 
Alphabet Inc. and its subsidiaries’ data centers, 
offices, and other assets under our operational 
control. Our reported water metrics exclude 
seawater. We round water metrics to the 
nearest hundred thousand gallons and report 
them in million gallons. 
We calculate water consumption by 
subtracting water discharge from water 
withdrawal.
Water withdrawal is based on actual metered 
or invoiced data when it’s available. At offices 
where actual metered or invoiced data isn’t 
available, we estimate water withdrawal 
using facility square footage and internally 
developed water withdrawal intensity factors 
by office type based on data from the 
reporting period. 
Water discharge is based on actual metered 
or invoiced data when it’s available. Where 
actual potable water discharge isn’t available, 
we apply an industry-standard 90% discharge 
flow factor to a facility’s water withdrawal 
to estimate water discharge. For irrigation 
water, we apply a 0% discharge flow factor to 
a facility’s water withdrawal to estimate water 
discharge. We apply this estimation process to 
all offices and to potable and irrigation water 
withdrawal at data centers used for domestic 
purposes (i.e., water not used for IT cooling) 
where actual discharge data isn’t available.
Water replenishment 
Our water replenishment metrics are based 
on the volumetric water benefits from 
water stewardship projects in our water 
replenishment portfolio. We engage our 
independent third-party volumetric benefit 
quantification partner LimnoTech, who 
applies industry standard methodologies 
and assumptions to calculate two metrics 
following the Volumetric Water Benefit 
Accounting (VWBA) methodology. We 
calculate water replenished by estimating 
the total volumetric water benefits of our 
current water replenishment portfolio during 
the year. We calculate contracted water 
replenishment capacity  by estimating the 
annual expected volumetric water benefits 
of our water replenishment project portfolio 
throughout each project’s implementation and  
respective duration.
Once projects are funded and completed, 
volumetric water benefits are first accounted 
for in the year the project begins delivering 
them and in subsequent years—provided 
there’s reasonable evidence that the project 
is maintained and continues to function as 
intended, which is confirmed via an annual 
review. If a project has multiple funders, 
the volumetric water benefit is adjusted to 
reflect our proportional financial contribution 
compared to the total project cost. The 
specific calculations applied to each project 
depend on the project’s objectives, activities 
implemented, and available information.
Waste metrics
We report all waste metrics for Alphabet Inc. 
and its subsidiaries’ data centers, offices, and 
other assets under our operational control.
We calculate waste generated by quantifying 
solid waste generated at our offices and data 
centers that’s either composted, recycled, 
landfilled, or incinerated (with or without 
energy recovery). The waste generation data 
comes from a combination of data from 
invoices and on-site measurements. Where 
actual waste data isn’t available for a specific 
facility, we estimate waste tonnage using 
waste container size and pickup frequency, 
actual waste data from similar facilities, or 
historical waste data from the same facility. 
We round reported waste generation metrics 
to the nearest hundred. 
We calculate waste diversion by quantifying 
the percentage of total waste generated that 
is diverted from disposal (defined as diversion 
of waste from landfills or incinerators, with or 
without energy recovery). The waste diversion 
rate for data centers includes Google-owned 
and -operated data centers and Google-
owned warehouses. We round reported waste 
diversion metrics to the nearest one percent.
Forward-looking 
information
References to information in this report 
should not be construed as a characterization 
regarding the materiality of such information 
to our financial results or our operations. 
While certain matters discussed in this 
report may be significant, any significance 
should not be read as necessarily rising to 
the level of materiality used for the purposes 
of complying with applicable securities laws 
and regulations. The information in this report 
may contain projections, future estimates, 
plans, expectations, goals, and other forward-
looking statements. Forward-looking 
statements are based on current expectations 
and assumptions that are subject to certain 
risks and uncertainties, which could cause our 
actual results to differ materially from those 
reflected in the forward-looking statements. 
Any changes in methodology may result in 
material changes to our calculations and may 
result in the current and previous periods, 
including our base year, to be adjusted. Except 
as required by law, we undertake no obligation 
to correct, revise, or update any information 
included in this report.

 74 
Targets data table
This table summarizes our targets and progress as of December 31, 2023, compared to the prior year. See the Environmental data tables that follow for more details. 
Topic Target Unit 2022 2023 Target 
year Learn more
Net-zero carbon
Achieve net-zero emissions across all of our operations and value chain by 2030
Carbon-free energy Run on 24/7 carbon-free energy on every grid where we operate by 2030 % global average  
carbon-free energy 64% 64% 2030 See page 35
Carbon reduction Reduce 50% of our combined Scope 1, 2 (market-based), and 3 absolute  
emissions (compared to our 2019 base year) by 2030  181 
% reduction since 2019 30% 
increase
48% 
increase 2030 See page 31
Water stewardship
Replenish more water than we consume and help improve water quality and ecosystem health in the communities where we operate
Water replenishment Replenish 120% of the freshwater volume we consume, on average,  
across our offices and data centers by 2030
% freshwater replenished 6% 18% 2030 See page 46
Circular economy
Maximize the reuse of finite resources across our operations, products, and supply chains
Data centers Achieve Zero Waste to Landfill for our global data center operations % of data centers at  
Zero Waste to Landfill 182  
See 
page 53 29%  183 N/A See page 53
Offices Divert all food waste from landfill by 2025 % food waste diverted 85% 82% 2025 See page 52
Consumer  
hardware  
devices
Use recycled or renewable material in at least 50% of plastic used  
across our consumer hardware product portfolio by 2025
% recycled/ 
renewable material 41% 34% 2025 See page 54
Make product packaging 100% plastic-free by 2025 % plastic-free packaging 96% 99% 2025 See page 55

 75 
Environmental data tables
GHG EMISSIONS
Emissions inventory Unit 20191 2020 2021 2022 2023
Scope 12 tCO2e 81,900 55,800 64,100 91,200 79,400
Scope 2 (location-based) tCO2e 5,116,900 5,865,100 6,576,200 8,045,400 9,252,900
Impact of PPAs and market-based emissions factors3 tCO2e -4,281,400 -4,953,700 -4,753,100 -5,553,200 -5,829,500
Scope 2 (market-based)4 tCO2e 835,500 911,400 1,823,100 2,492,200 3,423,400
Scope 3 (Category 1: Purchased goods and services)5 tCO2e 2,676,000 2,249,000 2,828,000 3,762,000 4,038,000
Scope 3 (Category 2: Capital goods)6 tCO2e 2,378,000 1,886,000 1,983,000 1,645,000 1,605,000
Scope 3 (Category 3: Fuel- and energy-related activities not included 
in Scope 1 or Scope 2) 7 tCO2e 381,000 462,000 686,000 916,000 1,186,000
Scope 3 (Category 4: Upstream transportation and distribution)8 tCO2e 508,000 464,000 484,000 556,000 584,000
Scope 3 (Category 5: Waste generated in operations)9 tCO2e 11,000 8,000 9,000 9,000 10,000
Scope 3 (Category 6: Business travel)10 tCO2e 369,000 97,000 26,000 211,000 283,000
Scope 3 (Category 7: Employee commuting)11 tCO2e 173,000 116,000 111,000 151,000 113,000
Scope 3 (Other categories)12, 13 tCO2e 2,258,000 2,318,000 2,761,000 2,784,000 2,993,000
Scope 3 (total)14 tCO2e 8,754,000 7 ,600,000 8,888,000 10,034,000 10,812,000
 
Total emissions: Scope 1, 2 (market-based), and 3 (total)15 tCO2e 9,671,400 8,567 ,200 10,775,200 12,617 ,400 14,314,800
Biogenic emissions tCO2 21,900 5,400 3,800 17,900 18,700
Assured for 2023 
1  W e recalculated select metrics related to our 2019 base year emissions, including 
Scope 1 emissions and Scope 2 market-based emissions, and obtained limited 
third-party assurance from an independent auditor for those select metrics. For 
more details, see our 2024 (FY2023) Independent Accountants’ Review Report and 
the endnotes below.
2  2 019-2021 Scope 1 and 2019 Scope 2 market-based emissions were recalculated 
primarily due to changes to the reporting boundary to include fugitive emissions 
from refrigerant leakage.
3 D ue to recalculations, the following GHG emissions metrics were adjusted: 2019 
Impact of PPAs and market-based emissions factors; 2019-2022 Scope 3 (total) 
emissions, 2019-2022 Total emissions; and all 2019-2021 Carbon intensity metrics. 
4 S ee endnote 2 above.
5 T o enhance transparency, we now present Category 1: Purchased goods and 
services emissions separately. In previous years, emissions generated from 
manufacturing consumer devices were presented in Category 2: Capital goods 
while emissions from our food program were presented in “Other categories.” 
Now, both are included in Category 1.
6 2 019-2022 Scope 3 (Category 2: Capital goods) emissions were recalculated 
primarily due to methodology updates for data center construction emissions to 
use LCAs and LCA emission factors.
7 I n 2023, we expanded our Scope 3 reporting boundary to include two additional 
emissions categories and recalculated 2019-2022 to include this additional Scope 3 
activity in our reported historical inventories: Category 3: Fuel- and energy-related 
activities and Category 5: Waste generated in operations. 
8 2 019-2020 Scope 3 (Category 4: Upstream transportation and distribution) 
emissions were recalculated primarily due to improvements in data accuracy.
9 S ee endnote 7 above. 
10 2 020 Scope 3 (Category 6: Business travel) emissions were recalculated primarily 
due to improvements in data accuracy.
11 2 020 Scope 3 (Category 7: Employee commuting, including teleworking) emissions 
were recalculated primarily due to refinements to our calculation methodology.
12  W e present certain Scope 3 emissions from Category 2, Category 11, and Category 
12 as an aggregated subtotal “Other categories” for business reasons, as described 
further in the Methodology  section.
13 2 019-2022 Scope 3 (Other categories) emissions were recalculated primarily due 
to improvements to the quality of data used in estimating our emissions beyond 
our “Tier 1” manufacturing suppliers of our equipment used in our technical 
infrastructure, which include supplier-specific data.
14 S ee endnote 3 above. 
15 S ee endnote 3 above. 

 76 
GHG EMISSIONS
Carbon intensity1 Unit 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Carbon intensity per unit of 
revenue
tCO2e/million 
USD ($) 5.67 5.30 7.33 9.13 11.40
Carbon intensity per FTE 
employee tCO2e/FTE 8.48 7.62 13.00 14.76 19.02
Carbon intensity per megawatt-
hour of energy consumed tCO
2e/MWh 0.0717 0.0624 0.1012 0.1155 0.1352
GHG EMISSIONS 2023
GHG emissions by type Unit Scope 1 Scope 2  
(market-based)
Scope 2  
(location-based)
CO
2 tCO2e 54,800 3,388,000 9,183,600
CH4 tCO2e 200 4,800 16,900
N2O tCO2e 200 11,300 33,100
HFCs tCO2e 24,200 19,300 19,300
Total tCO2e 79,400 3,423,400 9,252,900
CO2 tCO2 54,800 3,388,000 9,183,600
CH4 tCH4 6 200 700
N2O tN2O 1 38 100
HFCs tHFCs 15 13 13
GHG emissions by region Unit Scope 1 Scope 2  
(market-based)
Scope 2  
(location-based)
North America tCO
2e 54,600 1,855,700 6,864,600
Europe, Middle East, & Africa tCO2e 11,300 59,900 752,400
Latin America tCO2e 1,200 16,200 142,000
Asia Pacific tCO2e 12,300 1,491,600 1,493,900
Global total tCO2e 79,400 3,423,400 9,252,900
ENERGY 2023
Electricity and renewable 
energy by region Unit Total electricity Total renewable  
energy allocated
2
North America MWh 18,535,300 11,875,400
Europe, Middle East, & Africa MWh 3,547,200 3,456,200
Latin America MWh 424,900 336,200
Asia Pacific MWh 2,799,600 4,100
Global total MWh 25,307,000 15,671,900
ENERGY
Energy consumption3 Unit 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Fuel MWh 366,400 181,800 205,200 374,800 301,200
Purchased electricity4 MWh 12,226,200 15,125,700 18,238,400 21,685,300 25,252,600
Purchased heat5 MWh 150,500 124,900 119,300 219,100 278,500
Purchased steam MWh 17,600 17,600 22,600 23,500 14,500
Purchased cooling MWh 34,900 34,800 45,600 54,800 53,000
On-site renewable electricity MWh 6,300 7,200 8,800 9,600 10,700
Total energy consumption MWh 12,801,900 15,492,000 18,639,900 22,367,100 25,910,500
Electricity consumption Unit 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Total electricity consumption6 MWh 12,237,200 15,138,500 18,287,100 21,776,200 25,307,000
ENERGY 2023
Energy consumption Unit Renewable sources Non-renewable sources Total
Fuel MWh 68,300 232,900 301,200
Purchased electricity7 MWh 15,672,000 9,580,600 25,252,600
Purchased heat8 MWh 0 278,500 278,500
Purchased steam MWh 0 14,500 14,500
Purchased cooling MWh 0 53,000 53,000
On-site renewable electricity MWh 10,700 0 10,700
Total energy consumption MWh 15,750,900 10,159,600 25,910,500
RENEWABLE ENERGY
Energy consumption Unit 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Renewable energy contracts 
(cumulative) MW 5,400 5,700 7,200 11,600 14,900
9
Renewable electricity (PPAs) MWh 9,715,000 12,069,200 14,109,400 16,693,600 19,089,200
Renewable electricity  
(on-site) MWh 6,300 7,200 8,800 9,600 10,700
Renewable electricity (grid) MWh 2,515,900 3,062,100 4,168,900 5,073,000 6,207,100
Total renewable electricity 
purchased MWh 12,237,200 15,138,500 18,287,100 21,776,200 25,307,000
Electricity purchased from 
renewable sources % 100 100 100 100 100
Assured for 2023 
1  D ue to recalculations, the following GHG emissions 
metrics were adjusted: 2019 Impact of PPAs and market-
based emissions factors; 2019-2022 Scope 3 (total) 
emissions; 2019-2022 Total emissions; and all 2019-2021 
Carbon intensity metrics.
2   “ Total renewable energy allocated” includes renewable 
electricity generation from contractual instruments (i.e., 
EACs), which have been used in the calculation of Scope 
2 market-based emissions per the Greenhouse Gas 
Protocol Scope 2 Quality Criteria. 
3 T he following Energy consumption metrics were 
recalculated primarily due to changes to the reporting 
boundary with the inclusion of additional activity: 
2019-2022 Purchased steam and 2019-2022 Purchased 
cooling. Due to recalculation, 2019-2022 Total energy 
consumption was adjusted.
4  “ Purchased electricity” is electricity sourced from 
an electrical grid and purchased from a local electric 
utility company. This metric differs slightly from “Total 
electricity consumption,” which includes both purchased 
and self-generated electricity.
5  “ Purchased heat” includes both natural gas in leased 
facilities and district heat in applicable facilities.
6 S ee endnote 4 above.
7 S ee endnote 4 above.
8 S ee endnote 5 above.
9 T his figure represents primarily PPAs, and includes some 
generation capacity from targeted renewable energy 
investments where we also receive EACs.

 77 
CARBON-FREE ENERGY (CFE)
Global average CFE Unit 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
CFE across Google data centers (hourly) % 61 67 66 64 64
CFE across Google offices (hourly) % - - - 541 56
CFE across Google data centers and offices (hourly) % - - - 64 64
Regional average CFE across Google data centers Unit 2019 2020 2021 2022 20232
North America - East3 % - - - - 47
North America - Central4 % - - - - 91
North America - West5 % - - - - 63
Europe, Middle East, & Africa % - - - - 83
Latin America % - - - - 91
Asia Pacific % - - - - 12
Global CFE across Google data centers % - - - - 64
DATA CENTER GRID REGION CFE 2023
Country Regional grid6 Unit Google  
CFE
Contracted
CFE
Consumed
Grid CFE
Grid 
CFE %
Australia Australian Energy Market Operator 
(AEMO), New South Wales (NSW) % 33 0 33 33
Australia Australian Energy Market Operator 
(AEMO), Victoria % 40 0 40 40
Belgium Elia % 82 35 47 74
Brazil Operador Nacional do Sistema Elétrico 
(ONS) % 90 0 90 90
Canada Hydro-Québec % 100 0 100 100
Canada The Independent Electricity System 
Operator (IESO) % 87 0 87 87
Chile Sistema Interconectado Central % 91 75 16 61
Denmark Energinet % 92 43 49 86
Finland Fingrid % 98 77 21 92
France Réseau de Transport d’Électricité (RTE) % 94 0 94 94
Germany Germany % 90 73 17 64
Great Britain National Grid ESO % 92 76 16 65
Hong Kong CLP Power Hong Kong Limited  
(CLP Power) % 28 0 28 28
India Northern India Regional Grid % 29 0 29 29
India Western India Regional Grid % 14 0 14 14
DATA CENTER GRID REGION CFE 2023
Country Regional grid6 Unit Google  
CFE
Contracted
CFE
Consumed
Grid CFE
Grid 
CFE %
Indonesia Perusahaan Listrik Negara (PLN) % 13 0 13 13
Ireland EirGrid % 43 0 43 43
Israel Israel Electric Corporation (IEC) % 5 0 5 5
Italy Terna % 52 0 52 52
Japan Kansai Electric Power Company (KEPCO) % 30 0 30 30
Japan TEPCO Power Grid (TEPCO) % 16 0 16 16
Netherlands Tennet % 80 61 19 58
Poland Polskie Sieci Elektroenergetyczne (PSE) % 31 0 31 31
Qatar Kahramaa % 0 0 0 0
Saudi Arabia National Grid SA % 0 0 0 0
Singapore Energy Market Authority of Singapore % 4 0 4 4
South Africa Eksom % 16 0 16 16
South Korea Korea Power Exchange (KPX) % 35 0 35 35
Spain Red Eléctrica % 76 0 76 76
Switzerland Swissgrid % 92 0 92 92
Taiwan Taiwan Power Company % 18 1 17 18
United States Bonneville Power Administration (BPA) % 84 0 84 84
United States
California Independent System Operator 
(CAISO) % 55 0 55 55
United States Duke Energy Carolinas (DUKE) % 63 11 52 59
United States Electric Reliability Council of Texas 
(ERCOT) % 79 61 18 41
United States Midcontinent Independent System 
Operator (MISO) % 95 93 2 34
United States NV Energy (NVE) % 26 0 26 26
United States PacifiCorp East (PACE) % 29 0 29 29
United States P JM Interconnection (P JM) % 52 19 33 41
United States Salt River Project (SRP) % 48 0 48 48
United States South Carolina Public Service Authority 
(Santee Cooper) % 29 6 23 24
United States Southern Company (SOCO) % 42 17 25 30
United States Southwest Power Pool (SPP) % 87 80 7 47
United States Tennessee Valley Authority (TVA) % 65 24 41 53
Regional grid7
1 2 022 CFE across Google offices (hourly) was recalculated 
due to methodology updates.
2   2 023 is the first year we’re disclosing Regional average  
CFE across Google data centers. Data for prior years is  
not disclosed. 
3  T he eastern North America regional CFE percentage 
includes the following grid regions: DUKE, IESO, Hydro-
Québec, PJM, Santee Cooper, SOCO, and TVA. 
4  T he central North America regional CFE percentage 
includes the following grid regions: ERCOT, MISO, and 
SPP.
5  T he western North America regional CFE percentage 
includes the following grid regions: SRP, BPA, CAISO, NVE 
and PACE.
6 A g rid region (or regional grid) corresponds to the area  
over which a single entity manages the operation of 
the electric power system and ensures that demand 
and supply are finely balanced. In the United States, 
this generally means the ISO or RTO in regions that 
have these regional market structures. If no such 
structure exists, then Google defines the grid region 
as the electricity-balancing authority where our data 
centers are located. Outside of the United States, 
the grid region most often refers to the geographic 
boundary of a country, because most grid system 
operators operate at the national level. Certain regions 
that span multiple countries are well interconnected 
and could be considered as one grid; however, our grid 
mix calculations already include import and export 
considerations and therefore take into account power 
flows from neighboring grids. In the future, we may 
update our definition as we work with grid operators 
to better understand how transmission constraints or 
congestion impact CFE measurement within and across 
grid regions.
7 S ee endnote 6 above.

 78 
DATA CENTER ENERGY EFFICIENCY (PUE)1, 2 
Country Location Unit 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Belgium St. Ghislain PUE 1.09 1.08 1.08 1.09 1.09
Chile Quilicura PUE 1.09 1.08 1.09 1.09 1.09
Denmark Fredericia PUE - - - 1.12 1.10
Finland Hamina PUE 1.09 1.09 1.09 1.09 1.09
Ireland Dublin PUE 1.12 1.09 1.09 1.09 1.08
Netherlands Eemshaven PUE 1.09 1.09 1.08 1.07 1.08
Singapore 1st facility PUE 1.15 1.14 1.13 1.13 1.13
Singapore 2nd facility PUE - - - 1.21 1.19
Taiwan Changhua County PUE 1.13 1.13 1.12 1.12 1.12
United States Berkeley County, South Carolina PUE 1.11 1.11 1.10 1.10 1.10
United States Council Bluffs, Iowa (1st facility) PUE 1.12 1.11 1.12 1.12 1.11
United States Council Bluffs, Iowa (2nd facility) PUE 1.09 1.09 1.09 1.08 1.08
United States The Dalles, Oregon (1st facility) PUE 1.11 1.10 1.11 1.10 1.10
United States The Dalles, Oregon (2nd facility) PUE 1.07 1.07 1.06 1.07 1.07
United States Douglas County, Georgia PUE 1.12 1.10 1.09 1.09 1.09
United States Henderson, Nevada PUE - - - 1.11 1.08
United States Jackson County, Alabama PUE - - 1.13 1.12 1.10
United States Lenoir, North Carolina PUE 1.10 1.09 1.09 1.09 1.09
United States Loudoun County, Virginia  
(1st facility) PUE - - 1.10 1.09 1.08
United States Loudoun County, Virginia  
(2nd facility) PUE - - 1.13 1.09 1.08
United States Mayes County, Oklahoma PUE 1.10 1.12 1.10 1.10 1.10
United States Midlothian, Texas PUE - - - 1.16 1.13
United States Montgomery County, Tennessee PUE - - 1.10 1.11 1.10
United States New Albany, Ohio PUE - - - 1.14 1.10
United States Papillion, Nebraska PUE - - - 1.13 1.09
United States Storey County, Nevada PUE - - - - 1.19
Average annual fleet-wide PUE across Google-
owned and -operated data center campuses PUE 1.10 1.10 1.10 1.10 1.10
WASTE
Waste generation Unit 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Waste generated Metric tons 48,100 28,900 28,200 38,200 41,100
Waste diversion Unit 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Data center waste diversion rate % 90 81 78 86 783
Office waste diversion rate % 71 71 64 75 774
Total waste diversion rate % 77 77 77 84 78
Data center hardware 
refurbishment and reuse Unit 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Refurbished inventory used for  
server deployment, maintenance,  
and upgrades
% - 10 13 21 29
Components resold into the 
secondary market
Million 
components 10.0 8.2 4.9 5.0 7.0
WATER
Global operational water Unit 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Water consumption Million gallons 3,412.4 3,748.9 4,561.8 5,564.7 6,352.0
Water discharge Million gallons 1,748.3 1,939.8 1,734.8 2,034.9 2,301.3
Water withdrawal Million gallons 5,160.7 5,688.7 6,296.6 7,599.6 8,653.3
Freshwater withdrawal by  
water scarcity Unit 2019 2020 2021 2022 20235
Low water scarcity % - - - - 69
Medium water scarcity % - - - - 16
High water scarcity % - - - - 15
Water replenishment Unit 2019 2020 2021 20226 2023
Water replenished Million gallons - - - 271.0 1,035.9
Contracted water replenishment 
capacity Million gallons - - - 1,317.2 2,815.3
Assured for 2023 
1  P UE is a standard industry ratio that compares the 
amount of non-computing overhead energy (used for 
things like cooling and power distribution) to the amount 
of energy used to power IT equipment. A PUE of 2.0 
means that for every watt of IT power, an additional 
watt is consumed to cool and distribute power to the 
IT equipment. A PUE closer to 1.0 means nearly all the 
energy is used for computing.
2   W e report individual campus PUE only for campuses with 
at least twelve months of data. All reported PUE values 
are rounded to the hundredths place.
3  I n 2023, we adjusted our methodology for calculating 
waste generation and diversion for our data centers—for 
more details, see Reducing data center waste in the 
Circular economy section. These changes are reflected 
in our reported total “Waste generated,” “Data center 
waste diversion rate,” and “Total waste diversion rate” for 
2023, but not for prior years. 
4  I n 2023, we adjusted our methodology for calculating 
waste generated and diversion for our offices, 
integrating new data sources for reused furniture 
and recycled e-waste. These changes are reflected in 
our reported total “Waste generated,” “Office waste 
diversion rate,” and “Total waste diversion rate” for 2023, 
but not for prior years.
5 2 023 is the first year we’re disclosing Freshwater 
withdrawal by water scarcity (per our updated 
framework). Data for prior years is not disclosed.
6 2 022 was the first year of implementation of our water 
replenishment program.

 79 
WATER USE BY 
DATA CENTER LOCATION 2023
Location Unit Withdrawal Discharge Consumption
Ashburn, VA
Potable water
Million gallons 57.9
57.9
3.3 54.6
Berkeley County, SC
Potable water
Million gallons 847.2
847.2
83.8 763.4
Council Bluffs, IA
Potable water
Million gallons 1,334.9
1,334.9
354.8 980.1
The Dalles, OR
Potable water
Million gallons 383.7
383.7
81.3 302.4
Douglas County, GA
Potable water
Reclaimed wastewater
2
Million gallons 418.8
34.5
384.3
73.2 345.6
Dublin, Ireland
3
Potable water
Million gallons 0.6
0.6
0.5 0.1
Eemshaven, Netherlands
Potable water
Non-potable water
4
Million gallons 296.4
2.1
294.3
64.4 232.0
Frankfurt, Germany
Potable water
Million gallons 2.2
2.2
1.8 0.4
Fredericia, Denmark
Potable water
Million gallons 27.0
27.0
6.3 20.7
Hamina, Finland
Potable water
Million gallons 3.0
3.0
2.7 0.3
Henderson, NV
Potable water
Million gallons 273.8
273.8
115.0 158.8
Inzai, Japan
Potable water
Million gallons 11.2
11.2
4.4 6.8
Jackson County, AL
Potable water
Million gallons 159.8
159.8
17.6 142.2
Lancaster, OH
Potable water
Million gallons 15.4
15.4
7.7 7.7
Leesburg, VA
Potable water
Million gallons 246.8
246.8
73.6 173.2
Lenoir, NC
Potable water
Million gallons 358.1
358.1
21.3 336.8
Golf course 
equivalents
(estimated)1
<1
5.1
6.5
2.0
2.3
<1
1.5
<1
<1
<1
1.1
<1
<1
<1
1.2
2.2
WATER USE BY 
DATA CENTER LOCATION 2023
Location Unit Withdrawal Discharge Consumption
Lockbourne, OH
Potable water
Million gallons 31.8
31.8
8.5 23.3
Mayes County, OK
Potable water
Million gallons 1,037.1
1,037.1
222.0 815.1
Middenmeer, Netherlands
Potable water
Million gallons 7.1
7.1
2.1 5.0
Midlothian, TX
Potable water
Million gallons 164.3
164.3
28.5 135.8
Montgomery County, TN
Potable water
Million gallons 342.0
342.0
53.4 288.6
Montreal, Canada
6
Potable water
Million gallons 0.04
0.04
0.03 0.01
New Albany, OH
Potable water
Million gallons 152.0
152.0
24.9 1 27.1
Papillion, NE
Potable water
Million gallons 164.2
164.2
29.5 134.7
Quilicura, Chile
Potable water
Million gallons 190.7
190.7
85.5 105.2
St. Ghislain, Belgium
Potable water
Non-potable water
7
Million gallons 348.9
22.3
326.6
104.7 244.2
Sterling, VA
Potable water
Million gallons 81.0
81.0
25.4 55.6
Storey County, NV
8
Potable water
Million gallons 1.9
1.9
1.7 0.2
Sydney, Australia
9
Potable water
Million gallons 0.9
0.9
0.8 0.1
Other data center locations
Potable water
Non-potable water
Reclaimed wastewater
Million gallons 698.5
31.1
296.6
370.8
57.9 640.6
Data centers total
Potable water
Non-potable water
Reclaimed wastewater
Million gallons 7,657.2
5,984.6
917.5
755.1
1,556.6 6,100.6
Golf course 
equivalents
(estimated)5
<1
5.4
<1
<1
1.9
<1
<1
<1
<1
1.6
<1
<1
<1
4.3
40.7
Assured for 2023 
1  B ased on the average annual irrigation of golf courses in 
the southwest U.S. of 459 acre-ft or around 150 million 
gallons. Source: “ How Much Water Does Golf Use and 
Where Does It Come From? ” U.S. Golf Association, 
November 2012.
2   T reated wastewater from the Sweetwater Creek 
Sidestream Reuse Facility.
3  A ir-cooled facility; no water used for cooling.
4 I ndustrial water supplied by North Water.
5  S ee endnote 1 above. 
6 S ee endnote 3 above.
7  W ater drawn from the Nimy-Blaton-Peronnes shipping 
canal and treated on-site.
8 S ee endnote 3 above.
9 S ee endnote 3 above. 

 80 
Certifications
CERTIFICATION DETAILS
ISO 50001:  
Energy management
In 2023, we maintained our ISO 50001 certification for all Google-owned and -operated data centers in Europe 
that met our operational threshold for power usage. We were the first major internet company to achieve a 
multi-site energy management system certification to ISO 50001, which we first obtained in 2013.
ISO 14001:  
Environmental 
management
We maintain an ISO 14001 certification for our mobile phones, computer, and tablet consumer hardware in the 
United States.
Climate Neutral Data 
Centre Pact (CNDCP)
As of 2021, Google is a signatory  of the Climate Neutral Data Centre Pact, a pledge of data centers in Europe 
to achieve climate neutrality by 2030. The Pact sets targets in five areas: energy efficiency, renewables, water, 
circular economy, and heat recovery. In 2023, we successfully completed third-party verification that our  
five Google-owned and -operated data centers in the EU met the five pact targets in line with the  
Self-Regulatory Initiative. 
EU Code of Conduct 
on Data Centre Energy 
Efficiency
In 2023, our five Google-owned and -operated data centers in the EU became “Participants” in the EU Code of 
Conduct on Data Centre Energy Efficiency.
Leadership in Energy 
and Environmental 
Design (LEED) 
As of the end of 2023, over 300 Google office facilities have achieved LEED certification, including 71 with a 
Platinum rating and 165 with a Gold rating. In 2023 alone, we achieved LEED certification for 16 Google office 
facilities, including six with a Platinum rating and six with a Gold rating. For a list of some of Google’s LEED-
certified projects, see the U.S. Green Building Council’s project library.
International Living 
Future Institute (ILFI) 
In 2023, one Google building achieved ILFI certification: our Gradient Canopy building in Mountain View, 
California, achieved ILFI’s LBC Materials Petal certification—the largest new construction project to date to attain 
this certification.
Green Business 
Certification Inc. (GBCI) 
TRUE Zero Waste
In 2023, we achieved TRUE Zero Waste certification for 14 buildings across nine campuses, including Platinum-
level certification for seven buildings in Dublin, Ireland, and precertification for seven other buildings around the 
world. As of early 2024, we achieved TRUE precertification across 18 of our office campuses in Mountain View, 
California, which comprise more than 100 buildings. As of early 2024, we have the largest TRUE precertified 
portfolio in the world.
Recognitions
Below is a selection of sustainability-related recognitions received in 2023. While most 
focus on environmental topics exclusively, some also recognize broader achievements.
• CDP Climate Change A List (A score)
• CDP Supplier Engagement Leader 
(included)
• Dow Jones Sustainability North America 
Index (included)
• Dow Jones Sustainability World Index 
(included)
• EPA Green Power Partnership National Top 
100 Partner Rankings (ranked #2)
• Gartner Sustainability Assessment  
(“strong” 5/5 score)
• Sustainability Magazine Top 10: 
Sustainable Data Centre Companies 
(ranked #1)
• Technology Magazine Top 10 Big Tech 
Companies Creating a More Sustainable 
World (ranked #1)
• TIME World’s Best Companies of 2023  
(ranked #3 overall)

 81 
Endnotes
1 T his calculation is based on internal data, as of May 2024.
2 “The Carbon Footprint of Machine Learning Training Will Plateau, 
Then Shrink ,” Computer, vol. 55, July 2022.
3 A ccording to Google’s own analysis of our more efficient servers, 
power infrastructure, and cooling systems, compared with data 
center industry averages based on 2023 data. Uptime Institute’s 
annual data center survey from 2023 noted that the primary 
contributor to the flatlining of the industry average PUE is a richer 
geographical mix of surveyed data centers, with an increasing 
number of data centers in the Asia, Middle East, Africa, and Latin 
America regions. Facilities in these regions tend to be smaller 
in capacity and located in warmer climates—both factors which 
typically require greater energy consumption.
4 A ccording to the Uptime Institute’s 2023 Global Data Center Survey , 
the global average PUE of respondents’ data centers was around 
1.58. The Institute noted that the primary contributor to the flatlining 
of the industry average PUE is a richer geographical mix of surveyed 
data centers, with an increasing number of data centers in the 
Asia, Middle East, Africa, and Latin America regions. Facilities in 
these regions tend to be smaller in capacity and located in warmer 
climates—both factors which typically require greater energy 
consumption.
5 “Reduce Carbon and Costs with the Power of AI, ” Boston Consulting 
Group, January 2021.
6 G oogle uses an AI prediction model to estimate the expected 
fuel or energy consumption for each route option when users 
request driving directions. We identify the route that we predict 
will consume the least amount of fuel or energy. If this route is not 
already the fastest one and it offers meaningful energy and fuel 
savings with only a small increase in driving time, we recommend it 
to the user. To calculate enabled emissions reductions, we tally the 
fuel usage from the chosen fuel-efficient routes and subtract it from 
the predicted fuel consumption that would have occurred on the 
fastest route without fuel-efficient routing and apply adjustments 
for factors such as: CO 2e factors, fleet mix factors, well-to-wheels 
factors, and powertrain mismatch factors. We then input the 
estimated prevented emissions into the EPA’s Greenhouse Gas 
Equivalencies Calculator  to calculate equivalent cars off the road for 
a year. The cumulative figure covers estimated emissions prevented 
after fuel-efficient routing was launched, from October 2021 
through December 2023, while the annual figure covers estimated 
emissions prevented from January 2023 through December 
2023. Enabled emissions reductions estimates include inherent 
uncertainty due to factors that include the lack of primary data 
and precise information about real-world actions and their effects. 
These factors contribute to a range of possible outcomes, within 
which we report a central value.
7 T he estimated population covered is based on the forecasted flood 
risk area, using the WorldPop Global Project Population dataset.
8 R eductions in stops estimates are based on early data points from 
Google’s analysis of traffic patterns before and after recommended 
adjustments to traffic signals that were implemented during tests 
conducted in 2022 and 2023. Emissions reductions estimates are 
modeled using a Department of Energy emissions model. A single 
fuel-based vehicle type is used as an approximation for all traffic, 
and it is not yet adjusted for local fleet mix. These data points 
are averaged from coordinated intersections, and are subject to 
variation based on existing scenarios. We expect these estimates to 
evolve over time and look forward to sharing continued results as 
we perform additional analysis.
9 A lphabet’s percentage of electricity purchased from renewable 
sources methodology is a custom calculation and is based on a 
global approach. Percentage of renewable energy is calculated on a 
calendar-year basis, dividing the volume of renewable electricity (in 
megawatt-hours) procured for our global operations (i.e., renewable 
energy procured through our PPA contracts, on-site renewable 
energy generation, and renewable energy in the electric grids 
where our facilities are located) by the total volume of electricity 
consumed by our global operations. The numerator includes all 
renewable energy procured, regardless of the market in which the 
renewable energy was consumed. Additional details on Alphabet’s 
criteria and methodology can be found in the “ Achieving Our 100% 
Renewable Energy Purchasing Goal and Going Beyond ” disclosure.
10
 A g rid region (or regional grid) corresponds to the area over which 
a single entity manages the operation of the electric power system 
and ensures that demand and supply are finely balanced. In the 
United States, this generally means the ISO or RTO in regions that 
have these regional market structures. If no such structure exists, 
then Google defines the grid region as the electricity-balancing 
authority where our data centers are located. Outside of the 
United States, the grid region most often refers to the geographic 
boundary of a country, because most grid system operators operate 
at the national level. Certain regions that span multiple countries 
are well interconnected and could be considered as one grid; 
however, our grid mix calculations already include import and export 
considerations and therefore take into account power flows from 
neighboring grids. In the future, we may update our definition as 
we work with grid operators to better understand how transmission 
constraints or congestion impact CFE measurement within and 
across grid regions.
11
 T he total GW figure represents primarily PPAs, and includes some 
generation capacity from targeted renewable energy investments 
where we also receive EACs. Actual generation capacity may vary 
from the signed amounts based on changes during construction or 
project terminations.
12
 T he Google Renewable Energy Addendum applies to the electricity 
consumed by suppliers in the manufacturing of Google technical 
infrastructure and consumer hardware products. 
13
 W e contracted a third-party to estimate replenishment benefits 
using the Volumetric Water Benefit Accounting (VWBA) 
methodology ( Reig et al., 2019 ).
14 B ased on total weight of new Google Pixel and Fitbit retail packaging 
(excluding adhesive materials and required plastic stickers) as 
shipped by Google. To meet the request of some retail partners, 
stickers and/or security tags are applied to some packaging 
variations and may contain plastic.
15
 B ased on total weight of new Google Pixel retail packaging 
(excluding adhesive materials and required plastic stickers) as 
shipped by Google. To meet the request of some retail partners, 
stickers and/or security tags are applied to some packaging 
variations and may contain plastic.
16
  U nique, signed-in Google users that were provided information to 
make a more sustainable choice by at least one sustainable product 
feature.
17
 S ee endnote 7 above.
18 S ee endnote 6 above.
19 S ee endnote 10 above.
20  S ee endnote 9 above.
21  S ee endnote 11 above.
22 S ee endnote 15 above.
23  H aving previously used “before” and “by” interchangeably, we’ve 
refined the language of our carbon reduction target to “by” 2030 
to enhance clarity and improve consistency with our targets. This 
adjustment, made in consultation with the Exponential Roadmap 
Initiative, doesn’t alter our ambition, target strategy, or approach to 
our emissions reduction efforts.
24
 W e consider “Zero Waste to Landfill" for our data center operations 
to mean that more than 90% of waste is diverted from landfill and 
incineration, in line with industry standards. For more details, see 
Reducing data center waste  in the Circular economy section.
25
 I n 2023, we adjusted our methodology for calculating waste 
generated and diversion for our data centers—for more details, 
see Reducing data center waste  in the Circular economy section. 
These changes are reflected for 2023, but not for prior years. 2022 
performance (38%) is based on our previous methodology and is not 
comparable year-over-year. Had we not made these methodology 
changes, we estimate that our reported 2023 percentage of data 
centers to reach Zero Waste to Landfill would have been 43%, or a 
5% increase compared to our reported 2022 percentage.
26
 B ased on total plastic weight of Google Pixel, Nest, Chromecast, and 
Fitbit products manufactured in 2023. This does not include plastics 
in printed circuit boards, labels, cables, connectors, electronic 
components and modules, optical components, electrostatic 
discharge (ESD) components, electromagnetic interference (EMI) 
components, films, coatings, and adhesives.
27
 B ased on total plastic weight of Google Pixel, Nest, and Chromecast 
products manufactured in 2022. This does not include plastics 
in printed circuit boards, labels, cables, connectors, electronic 
components and modules, optical components, electrostatic 
discharge (ESD) components, electromagnetic interference (EMI) 
components, films, coatings, and adhesives.
28 S ee endnote 14 above.
29 S ee endnote 14 above.
30  G oogle Trends provides access to a largely unfiltered sample of 
actual search requests made to Google, allowing us to display 
interest in a particular topic from around the globe or down to city-
level geography. Google Trends is anonymized (no one is personally 
identified), categorized (determining the topic for a search query) 
and aggregated (grouped together).
31
  B ased on Google Trends data, when comparing global Google 
Search interest from 2004 through 2023.
32   T his is based on a 1% sample of all signed-in users who were active 
on Google Search in the United States over the course of a year 
(May 1, 2023 to April 30, 2024). This calculation only included users 
that are active more than one day over the course of the year. Topics 
related to sustainability include climate change, sustainable food 
choices, sustainable consumer goods, sustainable transport and 
travel, electric vehicles, sustainable energy, home energy efficiency 
and electrification, recycling and waste management, and others.
33
  B ased on Google Trends data, when comparing U.S. Google Search 
interest in this disaster type from 2004 through April 2024.
34 B ased on global Google Trends data from 2023.
35 S ee endnote 34 above.
36 B ased on Google Trends data of global search interest between 
January 2004–April 2024.
37  B ased on Google Trends data, when comparing global Google 
Search interest from 2004 through April 2024.
38  B ased on Google Trends, when comparing U.S. Google Search 
interest from 2004 through 2023.
39 S ee endnote 34 above.
40 See endnote 5 above.
41  A ccording to the Emissions Database for Global Atmospheric 
Research’s 2023 “ GHG emissions of all world countries ” report, 2022 
GHG emissions for the European Union’s 27 Member States were 
approximately 7% of global 2022 GHG emissions, falling within the 
5–10% range estimated by Boston Consulting Group.
42
 U sing satellite imagery, large-scale weather data, and flight data, 
we trained a contrails prediction model. For this trial, we partnered 
with American Airlines to integrate contrail likely zone predictions 
into the tablets that their pilots used in flight so they could make 
real time adjustments in altitude to avoid creating contrails. 
We evaluated the model’s performance using satellite imagery, 
comparing the number of contrails produced in flights where pilots 
used predictions to avoid contrails, to the number of contrails 
created in flights where pilots didn’t use contrail predictions. For 
more details, see the Project Contrails website.
43
  E stimated energy savings are calculated based on the average 
percentages for heating and cooling savings found in real-world 
studies of the Nest Learning Thermostat in the U.S. and U.K., and 
generalized for Nest thermostat usage worldwide, assuming user 

 82 
opt-in for available energy-saving features. To calculate the total 
Nest savings, we applied the savings percentages to the actual 
heating and cooling hours of all Nest thermostats in use in 2023.
44
  “Data Centres and Data Transmission Networks ,” IEA, July 2023, 
accessed May 2024. This metric covers global final electricity 
demand. Although this statistic is based on a 2022 dataset, we 
believe this is the best and most applicable proxy for comparison 
to Google’s 2023 data center energy consumption. More recent 
statistics include activity like cryptocurrency mining, which is not 
relevant to Google.
45
 T he IEA estimates  that global data center electricity consumption is 
240–340 TWh, or around 1–1.3% of global final electricity demand 
(roughly 25,000 TWh). In 2023, Google’s data centers consumed 
over 24 TWh of electricity, translating to 7-10% of the estimated 
240–340 TWh consumed by data centers globally, and less than 0.1% 
of the estimated 25,000 TWh of total global electricity demand. See 
endnote 44 for more information on the IEA statistic.
46
  “Aligning Artificial Intelligence with Climate Change Mitigation ,” 
Nature Climate Change , June 2022. We believe this continues to be 
an appropriate proxy for 2023 activity. 
47 S ee endnote 44 above.
48 S ee endnote 9 above.
49 P UE is a standard industry ratio that compares the amount of non-
computing overhead energy (used for things like cooling and power 
distribution) to the amount of energy used to power IT equipment. A 
PUE of 2.0 means that for every watt of IT power, an additional watt 
is consumed to cool and distribute power to the IT equipment. A PUE 
closer to 1.0 means nearly all the energy is used for computing.
50
 S ee endnote 3 above.
51  S ee endnote 2 above.
52  T his estimate is based on our internal analysis comparing the 
BFLOAT16 / INT8 model step time ratio measured on the MLPerf 
3.1 GPT-3 175B model. The results (11,798ms / 8,431ms = 139%) can 
be interpreted as a 39% speed improvement and, in turn, training 
efficiency.
53
 “Gemini 1.5: Unlocking Multimodal Understanding Across Millions of  
Tokens of Context ,” Google, 2024.
54  “TPU v4: An Optically Reconfigurable Supercomputer for Machine  
Learning  with Hardware Support for Embeddings ,” In Proceedings 
of the 50th Annual International Symposium on Computer 
Architecture, June 2023.
55
  A ccording to “ What Nvidia’s new Blackwell chip says about AI’s  
carbon footprint problem ,” Nvidia compared the total power needed 
to train the latest ultra-large AI models using the new Blackwell 
GPUs (4 megawatts) to the power required with older GPUs (15 
megawatts) and found the new GPUs use roughly 25% of the power 
(or 75% less) of the older ones.
56
  T his calculation is based on internal data, as of March 31, 2024.
57  S ee endnote 49 above.
58  S ee endnote 4 above.
59  B ased on the average annual irrigation of golf courses in the 
southwest U.S. of 459 acre-ft or around 150 million gallons. Source: 
“How Much Water Does Golf Use and Where Does It Come From? ” 
U.S. Golf Association, November 2012.
60
  S ee endnote 24 above .
61  S ee endnote 16 above.
62  S ee endnote 31 above.
63  T his sector categorization—energy; transportation; buildings; 
forests, land use, and agriculture; and industrial—references the 
work of leading climate expert organizations, including the IPCC’s 
Clsimate  Change 2023 Synthesis Report , Project Drawdown’s 
Drawdown  Foundations , and the U.S. EPA’s Sources of Greenhouse 
Gas Emissions .
64
 A ccording to the IPCC’s Climate Change 2023 Synthesis Report , the 
energy sector (34%) and transport (15%) accounted for a combined 
49%—or roughly half—of global emissions in 2019.
65
  S ee endnote 8 above.
66 T he Solar API estimates the rooftop solar potential of buildings 
around the world using high-resolution, 3D models of individual 
roofs from our aerial imagery in Google Maps. We’ve counted the 
number of individual buildings for which we have data, and which 
can be queried via a lat-long in Google Maps Platform .
67
  “Japan’s Greenhouse Gas Emissions Fall 2.5% in FY22/23 to Record  
Low,” Reuters, April 2024.
68  S ee endnote 6 above. 
69 S ee endnote 43 above.
70  T he enabled emissions reductions are calculated based on these 
energy savings, applying standard emission factors for fossil 
fuels, and using U.S. EPA AVERT marginal emissions for the 95% of 
electricity savings that occur in the U.S., with an adjusted value for 
the 5% of electricity savings outside the U.S.
71
  “Sixth Assessment Report: Chapter 9: Buildings ,” IPCC, 2022.
72 S ee endnote 43 above.
73  S ee endnote 70 above. 
74 “Solar PV,” IEA, July 2023, accessed May 2024.
75 S ee endnote 66 above.
76  T apestry refined the baseline GraphCast models, outperforming 
HRES by 15.1% with a 96-hour lead time, and by 18.4% with a 
120-hour (5-day) lead-time (both location and wind weighted). 
HRES is the weather model of the ECMWF (European Centre for 
Medium-Range Weather Forecasts) and is considered the state-
of-the art model for weather predictions. Testing was performed 
by generating the forecasts for 2021 and comparing the accuracy 
with GraphCast predictions. Note that these results are shown 
for pressure level PL1000, where a majority of the wind farms are 
located.
77
  “Sixth Assessment Report: Chapter 10: Transport ,” IPCC, 2022.
78  S ee endnote 6 above.
79 T his is based on estimated daily car rides at the intersections where 
Green Light has been implemented, multiplied by the average 
workdays in a month.
80  S ee endnote 8 above.
81  “The Contribution of Global Aviation to Anthropogenic Climate  
Forcing for 2000 to 2018 ,” Atmospheric Environment , January 
2021. Calculated using Supplementary data  to compare the global 
warming potential (GWP100) of contrails to the total global warming 
potential of the three primary aviation pollutants (CO
2, NOx, and 
contrails).
82 S ee endnote 42 above.
83  “Aviation Contrail Climate Effects in the North Atlantic from 2016 to  
2021,” Atmospheric Chemistry and Physics , vol. 22, iss. 16, August 
2022.
84  W e estimated a cost efficiency range based on our trial’s results 
in combination with published contrail literature. There is inherent 
uncertainty for this cost range due to estimations of the impact 
of contrails to the climate system. For more detail, see the Project 
Contrails  website.
85
  “Global Forest Resources Assessment 2020 - Key Findings ,” Food 
and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, 2020.
86  “Land Area - Hungary ,” The World Bank Data, accessed May 2024.
87 “Feeding the Future Global Population ,” Nature Communications , 
January 2024.
88  “2023 Was the World’s Warmest Year on Record, by Far ,” NOAA,  
January 2024.
89  S ee endnote 34 above.
90  “NASA Clocks July 2023 as Hottest Month on Record Ever Since 
1880,” NASA, August 2023.
91 S ee endnote 7 above.
92  “Spreading Like Wildfire: the Rising Threat of Extraordinary 
Landscape Fires ,” UNEP, February 2022.
93  S ee endnote 31 above.
94 “Canada’s Record-Breaking Wildfires in 2023: A Fiery Wake-up Call ,” 
Natural Resources Canada, May 2024, accessed May 2024.
95 “Is climate change increasing the risk of disasters? ,” WWF, April 
2024.
96 S ee endnote 7 above.
97 S ee endnote 7 above.
98 “Climate Change Impacts on Air Quality ,” U.S. Environmental 
Protection Agency, April 2024, accessed May 2024. 
99  I ncludes only Google-owned and -operated data center locations. 
Some of our locations have more than one data center campus.
100 S ee endnote 11 above.
101  S ee endnote 9 above.
102 S ee endnote 23 above.
103  A lthough 2020 was the most recent emissions inventory available 
at the time the target was set, 2020 was deemed to not be 
representative of a typical year, because operations were impacted 
by the COVID-19 pandemic. The next most recent year with 
representative data, 2019, was selected as the base year.
104
 S ee endnote 9 above.
105 T hese emissions savings represent the cumulative impact of PPAs 
and market-based emissions factors from 2012 to 2023 (i.e., the 
difference between our Scope 2 location-based emissions, which 
don’t take into account our CFE procurement, and our Scope 2 
market-based emissions). For the amounts from each year, see the 
Environmental data table  in the Appendix for 2019-2023, the  
2019 Google Environmental Report data table for 2013-2018,  
and the 2018 Google Environmental Report data table for 2012.
106
  “Greenhouse Gas Equivalencies Calculator ,” U.S. Environmental 
Protection Agency, March 2024, accessed May 2024. 
107  S ee endnote 3 above.
108  A ccording to Google’s platform-neutral measurement for CPU 
resources analyzed over a five-year period from 2018–2023.
109  S ee endnote 4 above.
110  E nergy Attribute Certificates (EACs) are tradable instruments issued 
to a unit of generation (generally, one MWh) which are used to 
aggregate and track energy attributes. Depending on the system 
that issues them and the market where they are used, corporate 
buyers may purchase them bundled with or unbundled from the 
underlying generation to secure the property rights to energy 
attributes. EACs are often interchangeably referred to as Renewable 
Energy Certificates (RECs).
111
  F or example, research by Princeton University , TU Berlin , and 
the International Energy Agency has shown that local and hourly 
carbon-free energy matching goals have a greater impact on grid-
level decarbonization than the prevailing approach of 100% annual 
renewable energy matching.
112
  C arbon-free energy is any type of electricity generation that doesn’t 
directly emit carbon dioxide, including (but not limited to) solar, 
wind, geothermal, hydropower, and nuclear. Sustainable biomass 
and carbon capture and storage (CCS) are special cases considered 
on a case-by-case basis, but are often also considered carbon-free 
energy sources.
113
  F or more details about our energy policy and ecosystem advocacy 
work, see the Public policy and advocacy section in the Appendix.
114 T he total GW figure includes generation capacity from targeted 
renewable energy investments. Actual amounts funded and 
generation capacity developed may vary from the amounts 
anticipated when the agreements were signed.
115
 S ee endnote 11 above.
116  S olar panels equivalency based on “ How Much Power is 1 
Gigawatt?,” Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy, 
August 2023, accessed May 2024. 
117 T his estimated spend is based on contracts signed to purchase 
clean energy for our operations, and includes some targeted 
renewable energy investments where we also receive EACs. 
Actual spend may vary from these estimates based on changes in 
renewable electricity output from operational projects, the number 
of contracts signed, project terminations, and energy market prices

 83 
118 S ee endnote 11 above.
119 C ontracted CFE (%) represents the percentage of our load that’s 
matched with hourly electricity generation from clean energy 
projects contracted by Google, without consideration of the CFE 
already on the grids where we operate. For more details, see the 
Other carbon and energy metrics section in the Appendix.
120
 G rid CFE (%) refers to the percentage of carbon-free energy 
sources consumed within a Regional Grid. Grid CFE is applied to 
Google’s load for any hour where Google’s Contracted CFE is less 
than the load. These values are calculated by a third party.
121
 S ee endnote 10 above.
122 O ur CFE percentage measures the degree to which our electricity 
consumption on a given regional grid is matched with CFE on an 
hourly basis. This is calculated using both CFE under contract by 
Google as well as CFE coming from the overall grid mix. CFE  
coming from the overall grid mix is based on data obtained from a 
third party. For more information, see our 2021 white paper,  
“24/7 Carbon-Free Energy: Methodologies and Metrics .” 
123
 T he central North America regional CFE percentage includes the 
following grid regions: ERCOT, MISO, and SPP.
124  R egional Google CFE across Google data centers refers to the 
percentage of carbon-free energy sources consumed by Google’s 
data centers within a given global region, following the same 
approach for calculating Google CFE (%) metrics. For more details, 
see the Other carbon and energy metrics section in the Appendix.
125
  T he eastern North America regional CFE percentage includes the 
following grid regions: DUKE, IESO, Hydro-Québec, PJM, Santee 
Cooper, SOCO, and TVA.
126
  C ontracted CFE (%) represents the percentage of our load that’s 
matched with hourly electricity generation from clean energy 
projects contracted by Google, without consideration of the CFE 
already on the grids where we operate. For more details, see the 
Other carbon and energy metrics section in the Appendix.
127
  C onsumed Grid CFE (%) measures the percentage of our load in 
a given market that’s matched with CFE from the grid after the 
application of contracted CFE. For more details, see the  
Other carbon and energy metrics section in the Appendix.
128
  R esidual grid mix removes from the grid electricity mix the 
proportion of renewable energy contracted to other parties that 
have claims to that electricity through EACs, and avoids double-
counting.
129
  2 022 CFE across Google offices (hourly) was recalculated due to 
methodology updates.
130  T his estimate is based on anticipated contracted energy from the 
projects that were terminated and then applied based on our CFE  
methodology .
131  “How the Tech Sector Can Drive Renewable Energy Opportunities in  
APAC,” ENGIE Impact, accessed May 2024.
132   P er CDP’s guidance documents , reported targets are considered 
“structured” if they include the scope(s) of emissions covered, 
the reduction percentage from the base year, the total base year 
emissions, the target year, and the target status.
133
  S ee endnote 12 above.
134  T his third-party estimate is based on a 2022 whole-building life cycle 
assessment, which includes requirements based on the LEED v4 
Building Life Cycle Impact Reduction credit requirements, as well as 
full cradle-to-grave life cycle stages over a 75-year analysis period. 
The analysis includes the foundation, structure, enclosure, and 
interior materials.
135
  C arbon footprint reduction claim based on third-party-verified life 
cycle assessment. Recycled aluminum in the enclosures is at least 
9% of applicable product based on weight. This 100% recycled 
content claim excludes Pixel 5a.
136
  B ased on data collected from shuttle commuting trips in the San 
Francisco Bay Area, as compared to a scenario in which these 
employees had each used a private, fuel-based car for commuting. 
Assumptions include average Googler commute distance, miles 
per gallon assumptions from the Bureau of Transportation, and 
emissions per gallon of fuel assumptions from the Greenhouse Gas 
Protocol. Equivalency estimate is based on workdays in the year, 
using data from “ Greenhouse Gas Equivalencies Calculator ,” U.S. 
Environmental Protection Agency, March 2024, accessed May 2024.
137
  “Climate Change 2022: Mitigation of Climate Change Summary for  
Policymakers ,” IPCC, 2022.
138 I n 2007, we set a goal to achieve operational carbon neutrality, 
and we met this goal every year from 2007 to 2022 via three steps. 
First, we worked to reduce our total energy consumption by 
pursuing energy efficiency initiatives. Next, we matched 100% of 
the global electricity consumption of our operations with purchases 
of renewable energy. Finally, we purchased high-quality carbon 
avoidance credits to address any remaining emissions, for example 
through the capture and destruction of highly potent greenhouse 
gasses like methane. Going forward, we continue to support a range 
of efforts to curb highly potent greenhouse gasses, for example 
through our work on MethaneSAT and grants to key organizations 
working on methane mitigation solutions. For more details,  
see Methane leaks in the Our products section and the  
Google.org grantees  section in the Appendix.
139
  W e define freshwater as naturally occurring water from surface or 
groundwater sources that isn’t salty, and is suitable for consumption 
if clean or processed. Freshwater excludes seawater and reclaimed 
wastewater.
140
  S ee endnote 13 above.
141 T o define water scarcity levels, Google assesses operational water 
risks for data centers and offices. For data centers, we assess water 
scarcity and depletion by applying our Data Center Water Risk  
Framework , and assign a low, medium, or high water scarcity level. 
For our office operations, we assess water scarcity using the WRI 
Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas  and the WWF Water Risk Filter , and where 
appropriate we adjust the assigned level of water scarcity based on 
local context.
142  S ee endnote 59 above.
143  S ee endnote 141 above.
144 E xpected stormwater collection is calculated based on the roof 
areas and estimated peak flow rates into the stormwater cistern, 
weather data for expected rainfall, and expected use for non-
potable water demands. The estimated reduction in municipal water 
use is calculated based on expected stormwater captured and 
reused onsite compared to total expected site water consumption 
per year.
145
  S ee endnote 13 above.
146  S ee endnote 13 above.
147  S ee endnote 13 above.
148 F reshwater consumption from Other Bets is excluded from our 
water replenishment target. Non-Google businesses under 
Alphabet Inc. are referred to collectively as Other Bets, and Other 
Bets operate as independent companies.
149
  S ee endnote 31 above.
150  S ee endnote 31 above.
151  P ercent reduction in food waste per Googler was calculated as food 
waste generated in kitchens and cafes at Google’s global offices per 
unique building badge swipes, against a 2019 base year.
152
 T his figure represents the cumulative hardware components 
resold from 2015 to 2023. For the amounts from each year, see the 
Environmental data table  in the Appendix for 2019-2023 and the 
2019 Google Environmental Report data table for 2015-2018. 
153
 U pdates for at least seven years from when the device first became 
available on the Google Store in the U.S. See g.co/pixel/updates  for 
details.
154  I n 2023, we adjusted our methodology for calculating waste 
generated and diversion for our offices, integrating new data 
sources for reused furniture and recycled e-waste.
155
  S ee endnote 151 above.
156  S ee endnote 31 above.
157 S ee endnote 152 above. 
158  O u r  consumer hardware products  include Pixel, Nest, Chromecast, 
and Fitbit devices.
159  U L110 and IEEE 1680.1 are multi-attribute, consensus-based 
sustainability standards for mobile phones and for computers 
and displays, respectively. Google uses a third party to validate 
conformance and independently certify to these standards. See UL 
Spot Database .
160
  D oesn’t include third-party products such as the Nest x Yale Lock.
161  F or products launched in 2020 and 2021: Nest, Pixel, and 
Chromecast devices are made with recycled plastic ranging 
between 9% and 68% based on weight of plastic used in each 
respective product launched during this timeframe. The following 
items are excluded: plastics in printed circuit boards, labels, 
cables, connectors, electronic components and modules, 
optical components, electrostatic discharge (ESD) components, 
electromagnetic interference (EMI) components, films, coatings, 
and adhesives. For products launched in 2022 and 2023: Pixel, Nest, 
and Chromecast devices are made with recycled materials ranging 
between 10% and 60% based on respective product weights.
162
  F or products launched in 2023: Fitbit devices are made with 
recycled materials of at least 5% based on product weight.
163  B ased on total plastic weight of Google Pixel, Nest, Chromecast, and 
Fitbit products manufactured in 2023. This does not include plastics 
in printed circuit boards, labels, cables, connectors, electronic 
components and modules, optical components, electrostatic 
discharge (ESD) components, electromagnetic interference (EMI) 
components, films, coatings, and adhesives.
164
 B ased on total plastic weight of Google Pixel, Nest, and Chromecast 
products manufactured in 2022. This does not include plastics 
in printed circuit boards, labels, cables, connectors, electronic 
components and modules, optical components, electrostatic 
discharge (ESD) components, electromagnetic interference (EMI) 
components, films, coatings, and adhesives.
165
  B ased on total weight of new Google Pixel and Fitbit products 
launched and manufactured in 2023, including U.S. configuration of 
in-box accessories.
166
  S ee endnote 163 above.
167  S ee endnote 164 above.
168 S ee endnote 163 above.
169  S ee endnote 14 above.
170  S ee endnote 15 above.
171  B ased on packaging comparisons of Pixel 8 and Pixel 8 Pro phones 
vs. a first generation Pixel phone. Based on total weight of new 
Google Pixel retail packaging (excluding adhesive materials and 
required plastic stickers) as shipped by Google. To meet the request 
of some retail partners, stickers and/or security tags are applied to 
some packaging variations and may contain plastic .
172
  S ee endnote 14 above.
173  S ee endnote 14 above.
174  S ee endnote 153 above.
175  L earn more about Google’s recycling program on our site .
176  T his includes all final assembly manufacturing sites globally for 
Google consumer hardware products with at least one year of data. 
Learn more about the UL 2799 Zero Waste to Landfill validation .
177
  T he percentage of FSC-certified wood used at Gradient Canopy is  
calculated based on material costs for new wood purchased for this 
project during construction.
178
 S ee endnote 177 above.
179  B ased on Google Trends data, when comparing global Google 
Search interest in 2022–2023 to 2020–2021.
180  S ee endnote 31 above.
181 See endnote 23 above .
182  S ee endnote 24 above.
183  S ee endnote 25 above. 

 84 
Glossary 
AI: artificial intelligence
CDP: Formerly known as the Carbon 
Disclosure Project
CFE: carbon-free energy
CO
2e: carbon dioxide equivalent
CPU: central processing unit
EAC: energy attribute certificate
EIE: Environmental Insights Explorer
EPA: U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
EV: electric vehicle
ft: foot
FSC: Forest Stewardship Council
GHG: greenhouse gas
GPU: graphics processing unit
GT: gigaton
GW: gigawatt
GWP: global warming potential
IEA: International Energy Agency
IPCC: Intergovernmental Panel on Climate 
Change
ISO: International Organization for 
Standardization
kWh: kilowatt-hour
LBC: Living Building Challenge
LCA: life cycle assessment
LEED: Leadership in Energy and Environmental 
Design
m: meter
ML: machine learning
MW: megawatt
MWh: megawatt-hour
NGO: non-governmental organization
PPA: power purchase agreement
PUE: power usage effectiveness
SDGs: Sustainable Development Goals
tCO
2e: metric tons of carbon dioxide 
equivalent
TPU: Tensor Processing Unit
TWh: terawatt-hour
WBCSD: World Business Council for 
Sustainable Development
WRI: World Resources Institute
UNEP: United Nations Environment 
Programme
UNFCC: United Nations Framework 
Convention on Climate Change
X: Alphabet’s “moonshot factory”
Photo details 
On the cover: 
Google Earth image of Nome, Alaska. 
What’s inside (page 1): 
Interior of Google’s Bay View office. Photo credit: Iwan Baan.
Introduction (page 2):  
Golden Hills wind farm in California (43 MW for Google)
A letter from our Chief Sustainability Officer and our  
Senior Vice President of Learning and Sustainability (page 3): 
Photo of Kate Brandt by Vaughn Ridley/Sportsfile for Web Summit via Getty Images
AI for sustainability (page 9):  
EDF’s new satellite, MethaneSAT, will map, measure, and track methane from oil and gas with unprecedented 
precision, offering a comprehensive view of methane emissions. Photo credit: MethaneSAT LLC.
Our products (page 14):  
By building AI models on the emissions profile of different vehicle types, fuel-efficient routing in Google Maps 
analyzes traffic, terrain, and the vehicle’s engine to find the most efficient route.
Mitigation (page 16):  
The Environmental Insights Explorer estimates the technical solar potential of all buildings in a region based on 
total sunshine exposure, weather patterns, and roof dimensions.
Adaptation and resilience (page 23):  
Governments, aid organizations, and individuals can use Flood Hub to take timely action and prepare for 
riverine floods, seeing locally relevant flood data and forecasts up to 7 days in advance.
Our operations (page 27):  
Our Bay View campus, as seen from across its stormwater retention pond. Photo credit: Iwan Baan.
Net-zero carbon (page 29):  
El Romero solar farm in Chile (80 MW for Google)
Water stewardship (page 42):  
A rainwater retention pond outside our data center in Berkeley County, South Carolina.
Circular economy (page 49):  
The restored glue-laminated wooden interior of our Spruce Goose hangar, with the sculpture nicknamed the 
“Ghost of the Goose” in view. Photo credit: Connie Zhou.
Nature and biodiversity (page 56):  
The design of the Charleston Retention Basin on our Mountain View Campus allows visitors to experience, 
learn about, and enjoy the expanded riparian habitat.
Appendix (page 60):  
Norther Offshore wind farm in Belgium (92 MW for Google)

Environmental 
Report
2024
Want to learn more about our latest efforts? 
To stay up to date on our news and progress, 
see our Sustainability blog.
Publication date: July 2024